the jury further said in term-end presentments that the city executive committee , which had over-all charge of the election , `` deserves the praise and thanks of the city of atlanta '' for the manner in which the election was conducted .
`` only a relative handful of such reports was received '' , the jury said , `` considering the widespread interest in the election , the number of voters and the size of this city '' .
it recommended that fulton legislators act `` to have these laws studied and revised to the end of modernizing and improving them '' .
merger proposed
the city purchasing department , the jury said , `` is lacking in experienced clerical personnel as a result of city personnel policies '' .
implementation of georgia's automobile title law was also recommended by the outgoing jury .
the grand jury took a swipe at the state welfare department's handling of federal funds granted for child welfare services in foster homes .
the jurors said they realize `` a proportionate distribution of these funds might disable this program in our less populous counties '' .
`` failure to do this will continue to place a disproportionate burden '' on fulton taxpayers .
wards protected
`` these actions should serve to protect in fact and in effect the court's wards from undue costs and its appointed and elected servants from unmeritorious criticisms '' , the jury said .
the jury did not elaborate , but it added that `` there should be periodic surveillance of the pricing practices of the concessionaires for the purpose of keeping the prices reasonable '' .
on other matters , the jury recommended that : ( 1 )
( 2 )
the jury praised the administration and operation of the atlanta police department , the fulton tax commissioner's office , the bellwood and alpharetta prison farms , grady hospital and the fulton health department .
his petition charged mental cruelty .
they have a son , william berry jr. , and a daughter , mrs. j. m. cheshire of griffin .
the petition listed the mayor's occupation as `` attorney '' and his age as 71 .
the petition said that the couple has not lived together as man and wife for more than a year .
henry l. bowden was listed on the petition as the mayor's attorney .
his political career goes back to his election to city council in 1923 .
he will be succeeded by ivan allen jr. , who became a candidate in the sept. 13 primary after mayor hartsfield announced that he would not run for reelection .
robert snodgrass , state gop chairman , said a meeting held tuesday night in blue ridge brought enthusiastic responses from the audience .
in the blue ridge meeting , the audience was warned that entering a candidate for governor would force it to take petitions out into voting precincts to obtain the signatures of registered voters .
when the crowd was asked whether it wanted to wait one more term to make the race , it voted no -- and there were no dissents .
five per cent of the voters in each county must sign petitions requesting that the republicans be allowed to place names of candidates on the general election ballot , or 2
sam caldwell , state highway department public relations director , resigned tuesday to work for lt. gov. garland byrd's campaign .
he will be succeeded by rob ledford of gainesville , who has been an assistant more than three years .
the georgia legislature will wind up its 1961 session monday and head for home -- where some of the highway bond money it approved will follow shortly .
gov. vandiver is expected to make the traditional visit to both chambers as they work toward adjournment .
construction bonds
the bond issue will go to the state courts for a friendly test suit to test the validity of the act , and then the sales will begin and contracts let for repair work on some of georgia's most heavily traveled highways .
a revolving fund
vandiver opened his race for governor in 1958 with a battle in the legislature against the issuance of $50 million worth of additional rural roads bonds proposed by then gov. marvin griffin .
schley county rep. b. d. pelham will offer a resolution monday in the house to rescind the body's action of friday in voting itself a $10 per day increase in expense allowances .
while emphasizing that technical details were not fully worked out , pelham said his resolution would seek to set aside the privilege resolution which the house voted through 87-31 .
as of sunday night , there was no word of a resolution being offered there to rescind the action .
a veteran jackson county legislator will ask the georgia house monday to back federal aid to education , something it has consistently opposed in the past .
barber , who is in his 13th year as a legislator , said there `` are some members of our congressional delegation in washington who would like to see it ( the resolution ) passed '' .
the resolution , which barber tossed into the house hopper friday , will be formally read monday .
colquitt
the new school superintendent is harry davis , a veteran agriculture teacher , who defeated felix bush , a school principal and chairman of the miller county democratic executive committee .
ordinary carey williams , armed with a pistol , stood by at the polls to insure order .
`` being at the polls was just like being at church .
the campaign leading to the election was not so quiet , however .
the former county school superintendent , george p. callan , shot himself to death march 18 , four days after he resigned his post in a dispute with the county school board .
ordinary williams said he , too , was subjected to anonymous calls soon after he scheduled the election .
sheriff felix tabb said the ordinary apparently made good his promise .
`` there wasn't a bit of trouble '' .
-- committee approval of gov. price daniel's `` abandoned property '' act seemed certain thursday despite the adamant protests of texas bankers .
under committee rules , it went automatically to a subcommittee for one week .
daniel termed `` extremely conservative '' his estimate that it would produce 17 million dollars to help erase an anticipated deficit of 63 million dollars at the end of the current fiscal year next aug. 31 .
it permits the state to take over bank accounts , stocks and other personal property of persons missing for seven years or more .
the escheat law cannot be enforced now because it is almost impossible to locate such property , daniel declared .
`` if you destroy confidence in banks , you do something to the economy '' , he said .
rep. charles e. hughes of sherman , sponsor of the bill , said a failure to enact it would amount `` to making a gift out of the taxpayers' pockets to banks , insurance and pipeline companies '' .
cox argued that the bill is `` probably unconstitutional '' since , he said , it would impair contracts .
austin , texas
the bill is designed to provide special schooling for more deaf students in the scholastic age at a reduced cost to the state .
it would authorize the texas education agency to establish county-wide day schools for the deaf in counties of 300,000 or more population , require deaf children between 6 and 13 years of age to attend the day schools , permitting older ones to attend the residential texas school for the deaf here .
the tea estimated there would be 182 scholastics to attend the day school in dallas county , saving them from coming to austin to live in the state deaf school .
while details are still to be worked out , ratcliff said he expects to tell home folks in dallas why he thinks berry's proposed constitutional amendment should be rejected .
`` but i believe if people were better informed on this question , most of them would oppose it also .
rep. berry , an ex-gambler from san antonio , got elected on his advocacy of betting on the ponies .
the house passed finally , and sent to the senate , a bill extending the state health department's authority to give planning assistance to cities .
one validated acts of school districts .
the third amended the enabling act for creation of the lamar county hospital district , for which a special constitutional amendment previously was adopted .
money for its construction will be sought later on but in the meantime the state hospital board can accept gifts and donations of a site .
one , by sen. louis crump of san saba , would aid more than 17,000 retailers who pay a group of miscellaneous excise taxes by eliminating the requirement that each return be notarized .
it was one of a series of recommendations by the texas research league .
natural gas public utility companies would be given the right of eminent domain , under a bill by sen. frank owen 3 , of el paso , to acquire sites for underground storage reservoirs for gas .
under formby's plan , an appointee would be selected by a board composed of the governor , lieutenant governor , speaker of the house , attorney general and chief justice of the texas supreme court .
-- state representatives decided thursday against taking a poll on what kind of taxes texans would prefer to pay .
rep. wesley roberts of seminole , sponsor of the poll idea , said that further delay in the committee can kill the bill .
the proposal would have to receive final legislative approval , by two-thirds majorities , before march 1 to be printed on the april 4 ballot , roberts said .
all dallas members voted with roberts , except rep. bill jones , who was absent .
-- paradise lost to the alleged water needs of texas' big cities thursday .
when the shouting ended , the bill passed , 114 to 4 , sending it to the senate , where a similar proposal is being sponsored by sen. george parkhouse of dallas .
the bill would increase from $5,000,000 to $15,000,000 the maximum loan the state could make to a local water project .
statements by other legislators that dallas is paying for all its water program by local bonds , and that less populous places would benefit most by the pending bill , did not sway cotten's attack .
`` this is a poor boy's bill '' , said chapman .
this would help the little peanut districts '' .
-- a houston teacher , now serving in the legislature , proposed thursday a law reducing the time spent learning `` educational methods '' .
a normal year's work in college is 30 semester hours .
the remainder of the 4-year college requirement would be in general subjects .
college teachers in texas are not required to have the education courses .
paris , texas ( sp. )
dr. clark will succeed dr. j. r. mclemore , who will retire at the close of the present school term .
he also received a master of science degree from texas a & i college and a bachelor of science degree from southwestern state college , weatherford , okla. .
during his college career , dr. clark was captain of his basketball team and was a football letterman .
he has served as a border patrolman and was in the signal corps of the u.s. army .
-- principals of the 13 schools in the denton independent school district have been re-elected for the 1961-62 session upon the recommendation of supt. chester o. strickland .
the report , culminating a year long study of the adc program in cook county by a new york city welfare consulting firm , listed 10 long range recommendations designed to reduce the soaring adc case load .
`` must solve problem ''
`` we must solve the problems which have forced these people to depend upon adc for subsistence '' , martin said .
these , he said , are `` two of the principal underlying causes for family breakups leading to adc '' .
other recommendations made by the committee are :
research projects as soon as possible on the causes and prevention of dependency and illegitimacy .
the disclosure by charles bellows , chief defense counsel , startled observers and was viewed as the prelude to a quarrel between the six attorneys representing the eight former policemen now on trial .
bellows made the request while the all-woman jury was out of the courtroom .
`` the statements may be highly prejudicial to my client '' , bellows told the court .
it is impossible to get a fair trial when some of the defendants made statements involving themselves and others '' .
`` yes , your honor '' , replied bellows .
there is a conflict among the defendants '' .
-- president kennedy today pushed aside other white house business to devote all his time and attention to working on the berlin crisis address he will deliver tomorrow night to the american people over nationwide television and radio .
shortly after the chief executive returned to washington in midmorning from hyannis port , mass. , a white house spokesman said the address text still had `` quite a way to go '' toward completion .
asked to elaborate , pierre salinger , white house press secretary , replied , `` i would say it's got to go thru several more drafts '' .
the last 10 cases in the investigation of the nov. 8 election were dismissed yesterday by acting judge john m. karns , who charged that the prosecution obtained evidence `` by unfair and fundamentally illegal means '' .
he said evidence was obtained `` in violation of the legal rights of citizens '' .
in the two other cases he ruled that the state had been `` unable to make a case '' .
issue jury subpoenas
mayer goldberg , attorney for election judges in the 58th precinct of the 23d ward , argued this procedure constituted intimidation .
karns said it was a `` wrongful act '' for wexler to take statements `` privately and outside of the grand jury room '' .
`` actually , the abuse of the process may have constituted a contempt of the criminal court of cook county , altho vindication of the authority of that court is not the function of this court '' , said karns , who is a city judge in east st. louis sitting in cook county court .
karns had been scheduled this week to hear seven cases involving 35 persons .
the cases involved judges in the 33d , 24th , and 42d precincts of the 31st ward , the 21st and 28th precincts of the 29th ward , the 18th precinct of the 4th ward , and the 9th precinct of the 23d ward .
two other cases also were under advisement .
after reading his statement discharging the 23d ward case , karns told wexler that if the seven cases scheduled for trial also involved persons who had been subpenaed , he would dismiss them .
-- president kennedy today proposed a mammoth new medical care program whereby social security taxes on 70 million american workers would be raised to pay the hospital and some other medical bills of 14.2 million americans over 65 who are covered by social security or railroad retirement programs .
the aged care plan , similar to one the president sponsored last year as a senator , a fight on capitol hill .
cost up to $37 a year
the social security payroll tax is now 6 per cent -- 3 per cent on each worker and employer -- on the first $4,800 of pay per year .
similar payroll tax boosts would be imposed on those under the railroad retirement system .
outlays would increase
both figures would go higher in later years .
these would be paid for out of general , not payroll , taxes .
the aged care plan carries these benefits for persons over 65 who are under the social security and railroad retirement systems : 1
2
a patient could receive up to 300 days paid-for nursing home care under a `` unit formula '' allowing more of such care for those who use none or only part of the hospital-care credit .
hospital outpatient clinic diagnostic service for all costs in excess of $20 a patient .
community visiting nurse services at home for up to 240 days an illness .
calls proposal modest
`` this is a very modest proposal cut to meet absolutely essential needs '' , he said , `` and with sufficient ' deductible ' requirements to discourage any malingering or unnecessary overcrowding of our hospitals .
it is a program of prepayment of health costs with absolute freedom of choice guaranteed .
wouldn't pay doctors
they would still be paid by the patient .
the president said the nation's 92 medical and 47 dental schools cannot now handle the student load needed to meet the rising need for health care .
contributions to schools
the schools could use the money to pay 4-year scholarships , based on need , of up to $2,000 a year per student .
officials estimated the combined programs would cost 5.1 million dollars the first year and would go up to 21 millions by 1966 .
more for nursing homes
he asked for another 10 million dollar `` initial '' appropriation for `` stimulatory grants '' to states to improve nursing homes .
in the child health field , the president said he will recommend later an increase in funds for programs under the children's bureau .
asks research funds
he did not say by how much .
the president said he will also propose increasing , by an unspecified amount , the 540 million dollars in the 1961-62 budget for direct government research in medicine .
reaction as expected
legislators who last year opposed placing aged-care under the social security system criticized the president's plan .
senate republican leader dirksen ( ill. ) and house republican leader charles halleck ( ind. ) said the message did not persuade them to change their opposition to compulsory medical insurance .
house speaker sam rayburn ( d. , tex. ) called the kennedy program `` a mighty fine thing '' , but made no prediction on its fate in the house .
-- acting hastily under white house pressure , the senate tonight confirmed robert c. weaver as the nation's federal housing chief .
a number of scattered `` ayes '' and `` noes '' was heard .
in the last eight years , all presidential appointments , including those of cabinet rank , have been denied immediate action because of a senate rule requiring at least a 24 hour delay after they are reported to the floor .
the rule was enforced by demand of sen. wayne morse ( d. , ore. ) in connection with president eisenhower's cabinet selections in 1953 and president kennedy's in 1961 .
the most positive element to emerge from the oslo meeting of north atlantic treaty organization foreign ministers has been the freer , franker , and wider discussions , animated by much better mutual understanding than in past meetings .
in oslo , the ministers have met in a climate of candor , and made a genuine attempt to get information and understanding one another's problems .
the nightmare of a clash between those in trouble in africa , exacerbated by the difficulties , changes , and tragedies facing them , and other allies who intellectually and emotionally disapprove of the circumstances that have brought these troubles about , has been conspicuous by its absence .
in the case of portugal , which a few weeks ago was rumored ready to walk out of the nato council should critics of its angola policy prove harsh , there has been a noticeable relaxation of tension .
there should even be no more bitter surprises in the un general assembly as to nato members' votes , since a new ad hoc nato committee has been set up so that in the future such topics as angola will be discussed in advance .
even norway , despite daily but limited manifestations against atomic arms in the heart of this northernmost capital of the alliance , is today closer to the nato line .
one diplomat described the tenor of secretary of state dean rusk's speeches as `` inconclusive '' .
exploratory mood
the impression has nevertheless been given during these three days , despite mr. rusk's personal popularity , that the united states delegation came to oslo in a somewhat tentative and exploratory frame of mind , more ready to listen and learn than to enunciate firm policy on a global scale with detailed application to individual danger spots .
but where the core of nato is concerned , the secretary of state has not only reiterated the united states' profound attachment to the alliance , `` cornerstone '' of its foreign policy , but has announced that five nuclear submarines will eventually be at nato's disposal in european waters .
conflict surveyed
the annual spring meeting has given an impetus in three main directions : more , deeper , and more timely political consultation within the alliance , the use of the organization for economic cooperation and development ( when ratified ) as a method of coordinating aid to the underdeveloped countries , and the need for strengthening conventional forces as well as the maintenance of the nuclear deterrent .
each ally will have to carry out obligations long since laid down , but never completely fulfilled .
the kennedy administration moves haltingly toward a geneva conference on laos just as serious debate over its foreign policy erupts for the first time .
the united states , state department officials explain , now is mainly interested in setting up an international inspection system which will prevent laos from being used as a base for communist attacks on neighboring thailand and south viet nam .
the united states hopes that any future lao cabinet would not become communist dominated .
policies modified
this is another of the modifications of policy on laos that the kennedy administration has felt compelled to make .
its spokesmen insist that there has not been time enough to institute reforms in military and economic aid policies in the critical areas .
how effective have kennedy administration first foreign policy decisions been in dealing with communist aggression ? ?
he was critical of what he feels is president kennedy's tendency to be too conciliatory .
it does not take a gallup poll to find out that most republicans in congress feel this understates the situation as republicans see it .
one republican senator told this correspondent that he was constantly being asked why he didn't attack the kennedy administration on this score .
but he further said that it was better politics to let others question the wisdom of administration policies first .
kennedy administration policies also have been assailed now from another direction by 70 harvard , boston university , brandeis , and massachusetts institute of technology educators .
this group pleads with the administration to `` give no further support for the invasion of cuba by exile groups '' .
and concentrate its constructive efforts on eliminating in other parts of latin america the social conditions on which totalitarian nationalism feeds '' .
but he did recommend that president kennedy state clearly that if communist countries shipped any further arms to cuba that it would not be tolerated .
aid plans revamped
strenuous efforts were made to remove pin pricking from administration statements .
but thus far there has been no response in kind .
in laos , the administration looked at the eisenhower administration efforts to show determination by sailing a naval fleet into southeast asian waters as a useless gesture .
but the communists aided the pathet lao at an even faster rate .
seato was steamed up and prepared contingency plans for coping with the military losses in laos .
( some seato nations disagreed , however .
there was the further complication that the administration had very early concluded that laos was ill suited to be an ally , unlike its more determined neighbors , thailand and south viet nam .
the pro-western government , which the united states had helped in a revolt against the souvanna phouma `` neutralist '' government , never did appear to spark much fighting spirit in the royal lao army .
if the administration ever had any ideas that it could find an acceptable alternative to prince souvanna phouma , whom it felt was too trusting of communists , it gradually had to relinquish them .
he declared on march 25 that the united states had erred a year and a half ago by `` encouraging the removal '' of prince souvanna .
the white house is taking extraordinary steps to check the rapid growth of juvenile delinquency in the united states .
in an important assertion of national leadership in this field , he has issued an executive order establishing the president's committee on juvenile delinquency and crime , to be supported and assisted by a citizens advisory council of recognized authorities on juvenile problems .
offenses multiply
simultaneously the president announced thursday the appointment of david l. hackett , a special assistant to the attorney general , as executive director of the new committee on juvenile delinquency and youth crime .
among arrests reported by the federal bureau of investigation in 1959 , about half for burglary and larceny involved persons under 18 years of age .
mr. hawksley said yesterday he would be willing to go before the city council `` or anyone else locally '' to outline his proposal at the earliest possible time .
mr. hawksley , the state's general treasurer , has been a part-time cd director in the city for the last nine years .
noting that president kennedy has handed the defense department the major responsibility for the nation's civil defense program , mr. hawksley said the federal government would pay half the salary of a full-time local director .
mr. hawksley said he believed there are a number of qualified city residents who would be willing to take the full-time cd job .
along with a director , the city should provide a cd headquarters so that pertinent information about the local organization would be centralized .
one advantage that would come to the city in having a full-time director , he said , is that east providence would become eligible to apply to the federal government for financial aid in purchasing equipment needed for a sound civil defense program .
mr. hawksley believes that east providence could use two more rescue trucks , similar to the cd vehicle obtained several years ago and now detailed to the central fire station .
speaking of the present status of civil defense in the city , mr. hawksley said he would be willing to bet that not more than one person in a hundred would know what to do or where to go in the event of an enemy attack .
riverside residents would go to the seekonk assembly point .
such vital information , he said , has to be made available to the public frequently and at regular intervals for residents to know .
one of the first things he would do , he said , would be to organize classes in first aid .
rhode island is going to examine its sunday sales law with possible revisions in mind .
the governor's move into the so-called `` blue law '' controversy came in the form of a letter to miss mary r. grant , deputy city clerk of central falls .
mr. notte was responding to a resolution adopted by the central falls city council on july 10 and sent to the state house by miss grant .
while the city council suggested that the legislative council might perform the review , mr. notte said that instead he will take up the matter with atty. gen. j. joseph nugent to get `` the benefit of his views '' .
`` i would expect the proposed committee to hold public hearings '' , mr. notte said , `` to obtain the views of the general public and religious , labor and special-interest groups affected by these laws '' .
the attorney general has advised local police that it is their duty to enforce the blue laws .
there has been more activity across the state line in massachusetts than in rhode island in recent weeks toward enforcement of the sunday sales laws .
the central falls city council expressed concern especially that more foods be placed on the eligible list and that neighborhood grocery and variety stores be allowed to do business on sunday .
the small shops `` must be retained , for they provide essential service to the community '' , according to the resolution , which added that they `` also are the source of livelihood for thousands of our neighbors '' .
the council advised the governor that `` large supermarkets , factory outlets and department stores not be allowed to do business '' on sunday .
liberals and conservatives in both parties -- democratic and republican -- should divorce themselves and form two independent parties , george h. reama , nationally known labor-management expert , said here yesterday .
he suggested that a regrouping of forces might allow the average voter a better pull at the right lever for him on election day .
that , he added , was when he was `` a very young man , a machinist and toolmaker by trade .
some of my fellow workers were grooming me for an office in the socialist party .
he steered me to the right track -- the free enterprise track '' .
he suggested that without the socialist party ever gaining a national victory , most of its original program has come to pass under both major parties .
he said he favors wage increases for workers -- `` but manufacturers are caught in a profit squeeze '' -- and raises should only come when the public is conditioned to higher prices , he added .
mr. reama , far from really being retired , is engaged in industrial relations counseling .
william a. martinelli , chairman of the citizens group of johnston , transferred the petitions from his left hand to his right hand after the council voted to accept them at the suggestion of council president raymond fortin sr. .
mr. martinelli explained that there should be more than enough signatures to assure the scheduling of a vote on the home rule charter and possible election of a nine member charter commission within 70 days .
a difference of opinion arose between mr. martinelli and john p. bourcier , town solicitor , over the exact manner in which the vote is handled .
mr. bourcier said that he had consulted several superior court justices in the last week and received opinions favoring both procedures .
mr. martinelli said yesterday that the citizens group of johnston will meet again july 24 to plan further strategy in the charter movement .
`` after inspiring this , i think we should certainly follow through on it '' , he declared .
he said he would not be surprised if some of the more than 30 members of the group are interested in running on the required non-partisan ballot for posts on the charter commission .
he expects that if the present timetable is followed a vote will be scheduled during the last week in september .
increasing opposition can be expected in coming weeks , it was indicated .
several signers affixed their names , it was learned , after being told that no tax increase would be possible without consent of the general assembly and that a provision could be included in the charter to have the town take over the johnston sanitary district sewer system .
council president frank sanantonio said yesterday he may ask the council to formally request town solicitor michael a. abatuno to draft the ordinance .
nothing has been done yet to take advantage of the enabling legislation .
local police have hesitated to prosecute them because of the heavy court costs involved even for the simplest offense .
-- james p. mitchell and sen. walter h. jones r-bergen , last night disagreed on the value of using as a campaign issue a remark by richard j. hughes , democratic gubernatorial candidate , that the gop is `` campaigning on the carcass of eisenhower republicanism '' .
the controversial remark was first made sunday by hughes at a westfield young democratic club cocktail party at the scotch plains country club .
hughes said monday , `` it is the apparent intention of the republican party to campaign on the carcass of what they call eisenhower republicanism , but the heart stopped beating and the lifeblood congealed after eisenhower retired .
sunday he had added , `` we can love eisenhower the man , even if we considered him a mediocre president but there is nothing left of the republican party without his leadership '' .
`` how can a man with any degree of common decency charge this '' ? ?
the former secretary of labor said he was proud to be an eisenhower republican `` and proud to have absorbed his philosophy '' while working in his adminstration .
regrets attack
`` he is wrong to inject eisenhower into this campaign '' , he said , `` because the primary is being waged on state issues and i will not be forced into re-arguing an old national campaign '' .
dumont spoke on the merit of having an open primary .
state aid to schools , the continuance of railroad passenger service , the proper uses of surplus funds of the port of new york authority , and making new jersey attractive to new industry .
mitchell decried the high rate of unemployment in the state and said the meyner administration and the republican-controlled state senate `` must share the blame for this '' .
`` but i am not in favor of a sales or state income tax at this time '' , mitchell said .
he said mitchell is against the centralization of government in washington but looks to the kennedy administration for aid to meet new jersey school and transportation crises .
the state is now faced with the immediate question of raising new taxes whether on utilities , real estate or motor vehicles , he said , `` and i challenge mitchell to tell the people where he stands on the tax issue '' .
earlier , mitchell said in a statement :
his reference to ' discredited carcass ' or ' tattered remains ' of the president's leadership is an insult to the man who led our forces to victory in the greatest war in all history , to the man who was twice elected overwhelmingly by the american people as president of the united states , and who has been the symbol to the world of the peace-loving intentions of the free nations .
`` such a vicious statement can only have its origin in the desire of a new political candidate to try to make his name known by condemning a man of world stature .
sees jones ahead
sandman , state campaign chairman for jones , was addressing a meeting in the military park hotel , newark , of essex county leaders and campaign managers for jones .
sandman said : `` the announcement that sen. clifford case aj , has decided to spend all his available time campaigning for mr. mitchell is a dead giveaway .
`` we have witnessed in this campaign the effort to project mr. mitchell as the image of a unity candidate from washington .
`` we are now witnessing an effort to transfer to mr. mitchell some of the glow of sen. case's candidacy of last year .
sandman announced the appointment of mrs. harriet copeland greenfield of 330 woodland ave. , westfield , as state chairman of the republican women for jones committee .
county supervisor weldon r. sheets , who is a candidate for the democratic gubernatorial nomination , today called for an end to paper ballots in those counties in the state which still use them .
sheets said that his proposed law would offer state financing aid for the purchase of voting machines , enabling counties to repay the loan over a 10-year period without interest or charge .
although he pointed out that mandatory legislation impinging on home rule is basically distasteful , he added that the vital interest in election results transcended county lines .
sheeran , a lawyer and former fbi man is running against the republican organization's candidate , freeholder william macdonald , for the vacancy left by the resignation of neil duffy , now a member of the state board of tax appeals .
jim sheeran fits that description '' .
-- william j. seidel , state fire warden in the department of conservation and economic development , has retired after 36 years of service .
seidel joined the department in 1925 as a division fire warden after graduation in 1921 from the university of michigan with a degree in forestry and employment with private lumber companies .
under his supervision , the state fire-fighting agency developed such techniques as plowing of fire lines and established a fleet of tractor plows and tractor units for fire fighting .
he introduced regular briefing sessions for district fire wardens and first aid training for section wardens .
boonton
he promised nearly 200 democratic county committee members at the meeting in the puddingstone inn : `` when i come back here after the november election you'll think , ' you're my man -- you're the kind of governor we're glad we elected ' '' .
attacks republicans
but we'll have a liberal , well planned , forward looking , honest platform .
`` we'll take the truth to the people , and the people will like the truth and elect their candidate and party in november '' .
but i shall campaign on the meyner record to meet the needs of the years ahead '' .
he called for a greater attraction of industry and a stop to the piracy of industry by southern states , and a strong fight against discrimination in business and industry .
`` to prevent hoodlums from infiltrating the state as they did in the republican administration in the early 1940s '' .
hughes supported gov. meyner's `` green acres '' plan for saving large tracts of open land from the onrush of urban development .
conservation plan
the other $15 million is to be alloted to municipalities on a matching fund basis .
he said `` morris county is rapidly changing and unless steps are taken to preserve the green areas , there will be no land left to preserve '' .
he said no matter what stand he takes it would be misconstrued that he was sympathetic to one or the other of the republicans .
i'm not afraid to tangle with the republican nominee '' .
-- fifteen members of the republican state committee who are retiring -- voluntarily -- this year were honored yesterday by their colleagues .
there may be other 1961 state committee retirements come april 18 , but they will be leaving by choice of the republican voters .
she also was the original gop national committeewoman from new jersey in the early 1920s following adoption of the women's suffrage amendment .
resentment welled up yesterday among democratic district leaders and some county leaders at reports that mayor wagner had decided to seek a third term with paul r. screvane and abraham d. beame as running mates .
some anti-organization democrats saw in the program an opportunity to end the bitter internal fight within the democratic party that has been going on for the last three years .
some viewed this attempt as evidence that mr. wagner regarded himself as bigger than the party .
some democratic district and county leaders are reported trying to induce state controller arthur levitt of brooklyn to oppose mr. wagner for the mayoral nomination in the sept. 7 democratic primary .
their view is that last-minute changes the mayor is proposing to make in the democratic ticket only emphasize the weakness of his performance as mayor .
mayor visits buckley
he is publicly on record as believing mr. de sapio should be replaced for the good of the party .
apparently he believes mr. buckley holds the key to the democratic organization's acceptance of his choices for running mates without a struggle .
but mr. buckley seems to have assumed he would be given the right to pick mr. gerosa's successor .
the mayor declined in two interviews with reporters yesterday to confirm or deny the reports that he had decided to run and wanted mr. screvane , who lives in queens , to replace abe stark , the incumbent , as the candidate for president of the city council and mr. beame , who lives in brooklyn , to replace mr. gerosa as the candidate for controller .
after his speech , reporters asked him about the report of his political intentions , published in yesterday's new york times .
`` it didn't come from me .
boston , june 16
there is a tangible feeling in the air of revulsion toward politics .
`` it's ' see joe , see jim ' '' , he says .
a political scientist writes of the growth of `` alienated voters '' , who `` believe that voting is useless because politicians or those who influence politicians are corrupt , selfish and beyond popular control .
corruption is hardly a recent development in the city and state that were widely identified as the locale of edwin o'connor's novel , `` the last hurrah '' .
a succession of highly publicized scandals has aroused the public within the last year .
and the election of president kennedy has attracted new attention to the ethical climate of his home state .
day after day some new episode is reported .
an assistant attorney general is directed to investigate .
-- congress starts another week tomorrow with sharply contrasting forecasts for the two chambers .
in the house , the southern-republican coalition is expected to make another major stand in opposition to the administration's housing bill , while more jockeying is expected in an attempt to advance the aid-to-education bill .
it is expected to be reported out tuesday , but this is a little uncertain .
mr. trimble has been in the hospital but is expected back tuesday .
the housing bill is expected to encounter strong opposition by the coalition of southern democrats and conservative republicans .
the $6,100,000,000 measure , which was passed last monday by the senate , provides for forty-year mortgages at low down-payments for moderate-income families .
the education bill appears to be temporarily stalled in the rules committee , where two northern democratic members who usually vote with the administration are balking because of the religious controversy .
three groups to meet
this would provide for long-term federal loans for construction of parochial and other private-school facilities for teaching science , languages and mathematics .
about half of all peace corps projects assigned to voluntary agencies will be carried out by religious groups , according to an official of the corps .
twelve projects proposed by private groups are at the contract-negotiation stage , gordon boyce , director of relations with the voluntary agencies , said in a washington interview .
they will be for teaching , agriculture and community development in southeast asia , africa , the middle east and latin america .
interviews with several church leaders have disclosed that this development has raised the question whether the peace corps will be able to prevent confusion for church and state over methods , means and goals .
last month in ghana an american missionary discovered when he came to pay his hotel bill that the usual rate had been doubled .
`` why do you worry ? ?
the u. s. government pays for all its overseas workers '' .
`` i don't work for the government '' , the american said .
the hotel owner shrugged .
and then , some churchmen remarked , there is a more classical church-state problem :
r. sargent shriver jr. , director of the corps , is certain that they can .
moscow , june 18
mr. khrushchev was jesting in the expansive mood of the successful banker .
the soviet union and other members of the communist bloc are rapidly expanding their economic , technical and military assistance to the uncommitted nations .
this was the biggest annual outlay since the communist program for the under-developed countries made its modest beginning in 1954 .
united nations , n. y. , june 18
this was disclosed today by a responsible source amid intensified efforts by the soviet union to gain a greater role in the staff and operation of the united nations .
india is the most populous united nations member with more than 400,000,000 inhabitants .
the report was completed after nearly eighteen months of work on the question of the organization of the united nations .
the advisory committee on administrative and budgetary questions is expected to receive the report this week .
each of the organization's ninety-nine members would get two professional posts , such as political affairs officer , a department head or an economist , to start .
each member with a population above 150,000,000 would get one additional post for each additional 30,000,000 people up to an unspecified cut-off point .
-- the three leaders of laos agreed today to begin negotiations tomorrow on forming a coalition government that would unite the war-ridden kingdom .
prince souvanna phouma , leader of the nation's neutralists and recognized as premier by the communist bloc , and prince souphanouvong , head of the pro-communist pathet lao forces .
their joint statement was welcomed by the western delegations who will attend tomorrow the nineteenth plenary session of the fourteen-nation conference on the future of laos .
but no one was overly optimistic .
w. averell harriman of the united states , malcolm macdonald of britain , maurice couve de murville , france's foreign minister , and howard c. green , canada's minister of external affairs , concluded , meanwhile , a round of consultations here on future tactics in the conference .
princess moune , prince souvanna phouma's young daughter , read the princes' statement .
the three laotians agreed upon a six-point agenda for their talks , which are to last three days .
to deal with principles
appointment of william s. pfaff jr. , 41 , as promotion manager of the times-picayune publishing company was announced saturday by john f. tims , president of the company .
the new promotion manager has been employed by the company since january , 1946 , as a commercial artist in the advertising department .
from june , 1942 , until december , 1945 , pfaff served in the army air corps .
before entering the service , pfaff for five years did clerical work with a general merchandising and wholesale firm in new orleans .
they reside at 4911 miles dr. .
-- thousands of bleacher-type seats are being erected along pennsylvania avenue between the capitol and the white house for the big inaugural parade on jan. 20 .
pennsylvania avenue , named for one of the original 13 states , perhaps is not the most impressive street in the district of columbia from a commercial standpoint .
many buildings
of course , 1600 pennsylvania , the white house , is the most famous address of the free world .
great chapters of history have been recorded along the avenue , now about 169 years old .
they were the suffragettes and they wanted to vote .
seats on square
also the department of justice building is located where j. edgar hoover presides over the federal bureau of investigation .
many spectators will be occupying seats and vantage points bordering lafayette square , opposite the white house .
moving past the presidential viewing stand and lafayette square will be at least 40 marching units .
division one of the parade will be the service academies .
then will come nine other states in the order of their admission to the union .
division four will be headed by the navy , followed by 11 states ; ;
division six will be headed by the coast guard , followed by the reserve forces of all services , five states , puerto rico , the virgin islands , guam , american samoa , the trust territories and the canal zone .
-- what does 1961 offer in political and governmental developments in mississippi ? ?
this is largely because of the unpredictability of the man who operates the helm of the state government and is the elected leader of its two million inhabitants -- gov. ross barnett .
consequently , it is uncertain after nearly 12 months in office just which direction the barnett administration will take in the coming year .
some predict the administration will settle down during 1961 and iron out the rough edges which it has had thus far .
there are many who predict that should barnett decide to call the legislature back into special session , it will really throw his administration into a scramble .
if barnett doesn't call a special session in 1961 , it will be the first year in the last decade that the legislature has not met in regular or special session .
districts issue
barnett is not expected to be able to withstand the pressure .
with eyes focused on the third congressional district , the historic delta district , and congressman frank e. smith as the one most likely to go , the redistricting battle will put to a test the longstanding power which lawmakers from the delta have held in the legislature .
split badly during the recent presidential election into almost equally divided camps of party loyalists and independents , the democratic party in mississippi is currently a wreck .
future clouded
with a democratic administration , party patronage would normally begin to flow to mississippi if it had held its democratic solidarity in the november election .
reports are that it is more than probable that the four congressmen from mississippi who did not support the party ticket will be stripped of the usual patronage which flows to congressmen .
-- the gov. jimmie h. davis administration appears to face a difficult year in 1961 , with the governor's theme of peace and harmony subjected to severe stresses .
but it might give way shortly to another vexing issue -- that of finances in state government .
the administration has said the sales tax proposal is merely part of the segregation strategy , since the revenues from the increase would be dedicated to a grant in aid program .
legislators weary
the administration could not say why $28 million was needed for a grant-in-aid program .
the tax bill will be up for reconsideration wednesday in the house when the legislature reconvenes .
if it fails to pass , he can throw up his hands and say the legislature would not support him in his efforts to prevent integration .
actually , davis would have to toss in the towel soon anyway .
this is not the sort of thing most politicos would care to acknowledge publicly .
underlying concern
he could tell the legislature they had provided the needed funds to carry on the battle .
it is difficult to be certain how the administration views that $28 million , since the views of one leader may not be the same as the views of another one .
this would be in perfect consonance with the underlying concern in the administration -- the shortage of cash .
if the administration does not succeed in passing the sales tax bill , or any other tax bill , it could very well be faced this spring at the fiscal session of the legislature with an interesting dilemma .
constant problem
the prospect of cutting back spending is an unpleasant one for any governor .
but if all alternatives should be clearly blocked off , it can be expected the davis administration will take steps to trim spending at the spring session of the state legislature .
a constant problem confronting davis on any proposals for new taxes will be the charge by his foes that he has not tried to economize .
the new year might see some house-cleaning , either genuine or token , depending upon developments , to give davis an opportunity to combat some of these criticisms .
estimates of the city's loss in the $344,000 job have ranged as high as $200,000 .
hemphill said that the hughes steel erection co. contracted to do the work at an impossibly low cost with a bid that was far less than the `` legitimate '' bids of competing contractors .
the controller's charge of rigging was the latest development in an investigation which also brought these disclosures tuesday :
the philadelphia transportation co. is investigating the part its organization played in reviewing the project .
varani has been fired on charges of accepting gifts from the contractor .
the announcement that the city would sue for recovery on the performance bond was made by city solicitor david berger at a press conference following a meeting in the morning with wagner and other officials of the city and the ptc as well as representatives of an engineering firm that was pulled off the el project before its completion in 1959 .
the hughes company and the consolidated industries , inc. , both of 3646 n. 2d st. , filed for reorganization under the federal bankruptcy law .
business relations between the companies and city have been under investigation by hemphill and district attorney james c. crumlish , jr. .
the suit was filed later in the day in common pleas court 7 against the hughes company and two bonding firms .
at berger's direction , the city also intervened in the hughes bankruptcy case in u. s. district court in a move preliminary to filing a claim there .
the contract violations mostly involve failure to perform rehabilitation work on expansion joints along the el track .
the city paid for work on 75 , of which no more than 21 were repaired , hemphill charged .
hemphill said the hughes concern contracted to do the repairs at a cost of $500 for each joint .
but , hemphill added , bids from other contractors ranged from $2400 to $3100 per joint .
wagner said the city paid only $37,500 to the hughes company .
`` we can claim on the maximum amount of the bond '' , berger said .
' know enough to sue '
douglas m. pratt , president of the ptc , who attended the meeting , said the transit company is reviewing the work on the el .
`` certain people must have known about it '' .
samuel d. goodis , representing the philadelphia hotel association , objected on tuesday to a proposed boost by the city in licensing fees , saying that occupancy rates in major hotels here ranged from 48 to 74 percent last year .
for hotels with 1000 rooms , the increased license fee would mean an expense of $5000 a year , goodis said .
his testimony came during a hearing on a bill raising fees for a wide variety of licenses , permits and city services .
the ordinance would increase the fee for rooming houses , hotels and multi-family dwellings to $5 a room .
goodis said that single rooms account for 95 percent of the accomodations in some hotels .
the city expects the higher rooming house , hotel and apartment house fees to bring in an additional $457,000 a year .
a proposal to raise dog license fees drew an objection from councilwoman virginia knauer , who formerly raised pedigreed dogs .
commissioner replies
in reply , deputy police commissioner howard r. leary said that the city spends more than $115,000 annually to license and regulate dogs but collects only $43,000 in fees .
$15,000 to pay six policemen assigned as dog catchers and $15,000 to investigate dog bites .
city finance director richard j. mcconnell indorsed the higher fees , which , he said , had been under study for more than a year .
the new fee schedule also was supported by commissioner of licenses and inspections barnet lieberman and health commissioner eugene a. gillis .
the petitions will be presented in open court to president judge william f. dannehower , davenport said .
he was caught driving the day after the sentence was pronounced and given a warning .
his widow started the circulation of petitions after barnard was reprimanded for violating the probation .
the commission also approved a novel plan that would eliminate traffic hazards for pedestrians in the project .
the tract is bounded by island ave. , dicks ave. , 61st st. , and eastwick ave. .
it is designated as stage 1 residential on the redevelopment authority's master plan and will feature row houses , garden apartments , four small parks , schools , churches , a shopping center and several small clusters of stores .
the second agreement permits the authority to sell a 520-acre tract west of stage 1 residential to philadelphia builders eastwick corp. , a firm composed of 10 philadelphia area builders , which is interested in developing part of the project .
the plan for eliminating traffic hazards for pedestrians was developed by dr. constantinos a. doxiadis , former minister of reconstruction in greece and a consulting planner for the new eastwick corp. .
it provides for a series of landscaped walkways and a central esplanade that would eventually run through the center of the entire two-and-a-half-mile length of the project .
the esplanade would feature pedestrian bridges over roads in the project .
-- the president of the kansas city local of the international association of fire fighters was severly injured today when a bomb tore his car apart as he left home for work .
he was in baptist memorial hospital .
the battalion chief said he had just gotten into his 1958 model automobile to move it from the driveway of his home so that he could take his other car to work .
gladden's wife and two of his sons , john , 17 , and jim , 13 , were inside the house .
hood flies over house
the left front wheel landed 100 feet away .
it was first believed the bomb was rigged to the car's starter .
the fire department here has been torn for months by dissension involving top personnel and the fight between the fire fighters association and the teamsters union .
gladden has been an outspoken critic of the present city administration and led his union's battle against the teamsters , which began organizing city firemen in 1959 .
a $500 reward was offered by the association's local in kansas city , kas. .
mining is secretary-treasurer of the local and shiflett is a member of its executive committee .
ankara , turkey , oct. 24 ( ap )
an agreement between the leaders of four parties which contested indecisive elections on oct. 15 was reached after almost 18 hours of political bargaining under the threat of an army coup d'etat .
the army leaders threatened to form a new military government if the parties failed to sign an eight point protocol agreeing on gen. gursel as president .
the military also had demanded pledges that there would be no changes in the laws passed by the junta and no leaders of the menderes regime now in prison would be pardoned .
vincent g. ierulli has been appointed temporary assistant district attorney , it was announced monday by charles e. raymond , district attorney .
ierulli , 29 , has been practicing in portland since november , 1959 .
he is married and the father of three children .
martin , who has been in office in washington , d. c. , for 13 months spoke at the council's annual meeting at the multnomah hotel .
`` we must persuade them to enjoy a way of life which , if not identical , is congenial with ours '' , he said but adding that if they do not develop the kind of society they themselves want it will lack ritiuality and loyalty .
insuring that the countries have a freedom of choice , he said , was the biggest detriment to the soviet union .
martin called for patience on the part of americans .
by leaving our doors open the united states gives other peoples the opportunity to see us and to compare , he said .
`` we have no reason to fear failure , but we must be extraordinarily patient '' , the assistant secretary said .
private business is more effective than government aid , he explained , because individuals are able to work with the people themselves .
martin said the government has been working to establish firmer prices on primary products which may involve the total income of one country .
but there seemed to be some difference of opinion as to how far the board should go , and whose advice it should follow .
chairman c. richard mears pointed out that perhaps this was not strictly a school board problem , in case of atomic attack , but that the board would cooperate so far as possible to get the children to where the parents wanted them to go .
`` los angeles has said they would send the children to their homes in case of disaster '' , he said .
i think everybody is agreed that we need to hear some voice on the national level that would make some sense and in which we would have some confidence in following .
dr. barnes said that there seemed to be feeling that evacuation plans , even for a high school where there were lots of cars `` might not be realistic and would not work '' .
the board said it thought it had gone as far as instructed so far and asked for more information to be brought at the next meeting .
salem ( ap )
hatfield also is scheduled to hold a public united nations day reception in the state capitol on tuesday .
he will speak to willamette university young republicans thursday night in salem .
he will attend a meeting of the republican state central committee saturday in portland and see the washington-oregon football game .
a bond issue which would have provided some $3.5 million for construction of the two 900-student schools was defeated by district voters in january .
board members indicated monday night this would be done by an advisory poll to be taken on nov. 15 , the same date as a $581,000 bond election for the construction of three new elementary schools .
the dinner is sponsored by organized labor and is scheduled for 7 p.m. .
other speakers for the fund-raising dinner include reps. edith green and al ullman , labor commissioner norman nilsen and mayor terry schrunk , all democrats .
-- three positions on the oak lodge water district board of directors have attracted 11 candidates .
polls will be in the water office .
incumbent william brod is opposed in his re-election bid by barbara njust , miles c. bubenik and frank lee .
seeking this two-year term are james culbertson , dwight m. steeves , james c. piersee , w.m. sexton and theodore w. heitschmidt .
the council revised , in an effort to strengthen , the denomination's 16 basic beliefs adopted in 1966 .
the council agreed it should more firmly state its belief in and dependence on the bible .
new point added
however , the first belief stood for entire revision with a new third point added to the list .
`` the scriptures , both old and new testament , are verbally inspired of god and are the revelation of god to man , the infallible , authoritative rule of faith and conduct '' .
-- emphasizes the virgin birth
-- his miracles
-- his bodily resurrection from the dead
super again elected
his offices are in springfield , mo. .
friday night the delegates heard the need for their forthcoming program , `` breakthrough '' scheduled to fill the churches for the next two years .
the rev. r. l. brandt , national secretary of the home missions department , stressed the need for the first two years' work .
this means that more than 100 million have no vital touch with the church or religious life '' , he told delegates friday .
talking of the rapid population growth ( upwards of 12,000 babies born daily ) with an immigrant entering the united states every 1-1/2 minutes , he said `` our organization has not been keeping pace with this challenge '' .
`` in this light we need 1,000 churches in illinois , where we have 200 ; ;
we need 100 in rhode island , we have none '' , he said .
to accomplish this would necessitate some changes in methods , he said .
`` the church's ability to change her methods is going to determine her ability to meet the challenge of this hour '' .
-- encouraging by every means , all existing assemblies of god churches to start new churches .
-- surrounding pioneer pastors with vocational volunteers ( laymen , who will be urged to move into the area of new churches in the interest of lending their support to the new project ) .
u.s. dist. judge charles l. powell denied all motions made by defense attorneys monday in portland's insurance fraud trial .
in denying motions for dismissal , judge powell stated that mass trials have been upheld as proper in other courts and that `` a person may join a conspiracy without knowing who all of the conspirators are '' .
proof lack charged
`` it is not necessary that a defendant actually have conpired to use the u.s. mails to defraud as long as there is evidence of a conspiracy , and the mails were then used to carry it out '' .
miami , fla. , march 17
indications as late as the top of the sixth were that the birds were to end their victory draught as they coasted along with a 3-to-o advantage .
over the first five frames , jack fisher , the big righthander who figures to be in the middle of oriole plans for a drive on the 1961 american league pennant , held the a's scoreless while yielding three scattered hits .
a two-run homer by norm siebern and a solo blast by bill tuttle tied the game , and single runs in the eighth and ninth gave the athletics their fifth victory in eight starts .
with one down in the eighth , marv throneberry drew a walk and stole second as hyde fanned tuttle .
then heywood sullivan , kansas city catcher , singled up the middle and throneberry was across with what proved to be the winning run .
the orioles once again performed at the plate in powderpuff fashion , gathering only seven blows off the offerings of three kansas city pitchers .
hartman impressive
the birds got five hits and all three of their runs off kunkel before hartman took over in the top of the fourth .
keegan , a 6-foot-3-inch 158-pounder , gave up the orioles' last two safeties over the final three frames , escaping a load of trouble in the ninth when the birds threatened but failed to tally .
in the ninth , robinson led off with his second double of the night , a blast off the fence 375 feet deep into left .
then three consecutive pinch-hitters failed to produce .
john powell , batting for adair , fanned after fouling off two 2-and-2 pitches , and buddy barker , up for stepanovich , bounced out sharply to jerry lumpe at second to end the 2-hour-and-27-minute contest .
the flock added a pair of tallies in the third on three straight hits after two were out .
lumpe errs
then robinson slammed a long double to left center to score both runners .
the detailed rundown on the kansas city scoring in the sixth went like this :
carey singles
it was ruled a difficult chance and a hit .
breeding to adair to gentile , setting up tuttle's 390-foot homer over the wall in left center .
miami , fla. , march 17
hansen , who slugged the 1960 oriole high of 22 homers and drove in 86 runs on a
the big , 22-year-old shortstop , the 1960 american league `` rookie-of-the-year '' , flew here late this afternoon from baltimore , signed his contract for an estimated $15,000 and was a spectator at tonight's 5-to-3 loss to kansas city -- the winless birds' sixth setback in a row .
the 6-foot 3-inch hansen checked in close to 200 pounds , 15 pounds lighter than his reporting weight last spring .
when he was inducted into the army at fort knox , ky. , hansen's weight had dropped to 180 -- `` too light for me to be at my best '' he said .
seeks `` improved fielding ''
`` i think i can do a better job with the glove , now that i know the hitters around the league a little better '' , he said .
skinny brown and hoyt wilhelm , the flock's veteran knuckleball specialists , are slated to oppose the american league champions in tomorrow's 8 p.m. contest .
ryne duren and roland sheldon , a rookie righthander who posted a 15-1 record last year for the yanks' auburn ( n.y. ) farm club of the class-d new york-pennsylvania league , are the probable rival pitchers .
ralph houk , successor to casey stengel at the yankee helm , plans to bring the entire new york squad here from st. petersburg , including joe dimaggio and large crowds are anticipated for both weekend games .
squad cut near
the 22-year-old southpaw enlisted earlier last fall than did hansen .
`` take a ride on this one '' , brooks robinson greeted hansen as the bird third sacker grabbed a bat , headed for the plate and bounced a third-inning two-run double off the left-centerfield wall tonight .
just before game time , robinson's pretty wife , connie informed him that an addition to the family can be expected late next summer .
hansen arrived just before nightfall , two hours late , in company with lee macphail ; ;
their flight was delayed , dunn said , when a boarding ramp inflicted some minor damage to the wing of the plane .
`` but they shouldda brought in tokyo , too '' , added old scrapiron .
bowie , md. , march 17
toying with her field in the early stages , garden fresh was asked for top speed only in the stretch by jockey philip grimm and won by a length and a half in 1.24 3-5 for the 7 furlongs .
richard m. forbes's paget , which had what seemed to be a substantial lead in the early stages , tired rapidly nearing the wire and was able to save place money only a head in front of glen t. hallowell's milties miss .
prior to the featured race , the stewards announced that apprentice james p. verrone is suspended ten days for crowding horses and crossing the field sharply in two races on wednesday .
garden fresh , the result of a mating of better self and rosy fingered , seems to improve with each start and appeared to win the st. patrick's day purse with some speed in reserve .
cleveland , march 17 ( ap )
kerr , who set the world record earlier this month in new york with a clocking of 1.09.3 , wiped out mills's early pace and beat the young big 10 quarter-mile king by 5 yards .
mills shot out in front and kept the lead through two thirds of the race .
mills was timed in 1.10.4 .
mrs. grace butcher , of nearby chardon , a 27-year-old housewife who has two children , finished in 2.21.6 .
san francisco , march 17 ( ap )
waters injured his left knee in the last game of the 1960 season .
st. petersburg , fla. , march 17 ( ap )
austin , texas
time stands still every time moritz , a 26-year-old army signal corps veteran , goes into the field .
moritz doesn't even have a nose guard or hip pads but he's one of the most valuable members of the longhorn team that will be heavily favored saturday over oklahoma in the cotton bowl .
he ran his string of successful conversions this season to 13 straight before one went astray last saturday night in the 41-8 slaughter of washington state .
but ask coach darrell royal what position he plays and you'll get the quick response , `` place-kicker '' .
last year , when he worked out at halfback all season , he didn't get into a single game .
`` so i started practicing on it in spring training .
moritz said monday his leg feels fine and , as a result , he hopes to start practicing field goals this week .
`` i kicked about 110 extra points in 135 tries during three years in high school '' , he said , `` and made 26 in a row at one time .
moritz came to texas in 1954 but his freshman football efforts were hampered by a knee injury .
his statistical record that year , when texas won only one game and lost nine , was far from impressive : he carried the ball three times for a net gain of 10 yards , punted once for 39 yards and caught one pass for 13 yards .
but he was scholastically ineligible in 1959 and merely present last season .
`` once you get the feel of it , there's not much to it .
practice helps you to get your timing down .
moritz , however , kicks only about 10 or 12 extra points during each practice session .
footnotes :
their total passing yardage in three games , 447 on 30 completions in 56 attempts , is only 22 yards short of their total passing yardage in 1959 , when they made 469 on 37 completions in 86 tries .
he now has 273 yards in 22 tries during three games .
wingback jack collins injured a knee in the washington state game but insists he'll be ready for oklahoma .
it didn't ; ;
a good feeling prevailed on the smu coaching staff monday , but attention quickly turned from saturday's victory to next week's problem : rice university .
`` we're just real happy for the players '' , coach bill meek said of the 9-7 victory over the air force academy .
it was the first time we've been ahead this season ( when john richey kicked what proved to be the winning field goal ) '' .
we needed it and we got it '' .
both turned in top jobs for the second straight game .
`` he knocked down the interference and made key stops lots of times .
he broke that boy ( air force fullback nick arshinkoff ) in two and knocked him loose from the football '' .
one was on a fourth-down screen pass from the mustang 21 after an incomplete pass into gannon's territory .
`` he timed it just right and broke through there before the boy ( halfback terry isaacson ) had time to turn around .
the air force's , and the game's , final play , was a long pass by quarterback bob mcnaughton which gannon intercepted on his own 44 and returned 22 yards .
`` he almost brought it back all the way '' .
`` kelsey is very doubtful for the rice game '' , meek said .
he got hit from the blind side by the split end coming back on the second play of the game .
rice has not played since injuring a knee in the opener with maryland .
`` we'll let him do a lot of running this week , but i don't know if he'll be able to play '' .
`` we'll work hard tuesday , wednesday and thursday '' , meek said , `` and probably will have a good scrimmage friday .
smu will play the owls at rice stadium in houston in a night game saturday , oct. 21 .
-- held out of texas tech's sweat-suits drill monday at lubbock was tackle richard stafford , who is undergoing treatment for a leg injury suffered in the raiders' 38-7 loss to texas a & m because of its important game with arkansas coming up saturday , baylor worked out in the rain monday -- mud or no mud .
the texas aggies got a day off monday -- a special gift from coach jim myers for its conference victory last saturday night , but myers announced that halfback george hargett , shaken up in the tech game , would not play against trinity saturday .
the dallas texans were back home monday with their third victory in four american football league starts -- a 19-12 triumph over the denver broncos -- but their visit will be a short one .
buffalo coach buster ramsey , who has become one of the game's greatest collectors of quarterbacks , apparently now has found a productive pair in two ex-national football leaguers , m. c. reynolds and warren rabb .
`` just our luck '' ! !
`` buster would solve that quarterback problem just as we head that way '' .
`` our interior line and out linebackers played exceptionally well '' , said stram monday after he and his staff reviewed movies of the game .
the texans won the game through ball control , with quarterback cotton davidson throwing only 17 passes .
`` they can be going along , doing little damage , then bang , bang -- they can hit a couple of passes on you for touchdowns and put you in trouble '' .
the principal tactic in controlling the ball was giving it to abner haynes , the flashy halfback .
the texans made themselves a comforting break on the opening kickoff when denver's al carmichael was jarred loose from the ball when dave grayson , the speedy halfback , hit him and guard al reynolds claimed it for dallas .
`` that permitted us to start controlling the ball right away '' , said stram , quipping , `` i think i'll put that play in the book '' .
texas' 545-yard spree against washington state gave the longhorns a 3-game total offense of 1,512 yards ( 1,065 rushing and 447 passing ) a new swc high .
completing 12 of 15 passes for 174 yards , the aggies had a total offense of 361 yards .
a & m has the best defense against passes , 34.7 yards per game .
rookie ron nischwitz continued his pinpoint pitching monday night as the bears made it two straight over indianapolis , 5-3 .
it was nischwitz' third straight victory of the new season and ran the grizzlies' winning streak to four straight .
nischwitz fanned six and walked only charley hinton in the third inning .
the bears took the lead in the first inning , as they did in sunday's opener , and never lagged .
after al paschal gruonded out , jay cooke walked and jim mcdaniel singled home mcauliffe .
jay porter drew a base on balls to fill the bases but don wert's smash was knocked down by rudolph for the putout .
nischwitz was working on a 3-hitter when the indians bunched three of their eight hits for two runs in the sixth .
the bears added their last run in the sixth on alusik's double and outfield flies by porter and wert .
despite the 45-degree weather the game was clicked off in 1:48 , thanks to only three bases on balls and some good infield play .
bingles and bobbles :
it was the season's first night game and an obvious refocusing of the lights are in order .
mary dobbs tuttle was back at the organ .
lefty wyman carey , another denver rookie , will be on the mound against veteran john tsitouris at 8 o'clock tuesday night .
dallas , tex. , may 1 -- ( ap )
st. paul-minneapolis , may 1 -- ( ap )
lemon was on with his fourth single of the game , a liner to center .
it was gardner's second run batted in of the game and his only ones of the year .
the twins tied the score in the sixth inning when reno bertoia beat out a high chopper to third base and scored on lenny green's double to left .
jim landis' 380-foot home run over left in the first inning gave the sox a 1-0 lead , but harmon killebrew came back in the bottom of the first with his second homer in two days with the walking bob allison aboard .
a double by green , allison's run-scoring 2-baser , an infield single by lemon and gardner's solid single to center put the twins back in front in the last of the fifth .
-- boston red sox outfielder jackie jensen said monday night he was through playing baseball .
`` i know when my reflexes are gone and i'm not going to be any 25th man on the ball club '' .
jensen got only six hits in 46 at-bats for a batting average in the first 12 games .
she said , when she learned jackie was heading home : `` i'm just speculating , but i have to think jack feels he's hurting boston's chances '' .
sports writer ensign ritchie of the ogden standard examiner went to his compartment to talk with him .
you'll probably get a ball bat on the head .
but jackie had gone into the station .
`` i told him who i was and he was quite cold .
i told him what liston had said and he said liston was a double-crosser and said anything he ( liston ) got was through a keyhole .
liston is bill liston , baseball writer for the boston traveler , who quoted jensen as saying :
i can't run .
suddenly my reflexes are gone .
and so it was over the weekend what with 40-year-old warren spahn pitching his no-hit masterpiece against the giants and the giants' willie mays retaliating with a record-tying 4-homer spree sunday .
of the two cherished achievements the elderly spahn's hitless pitching probably reached the most hearts .
and one of the milwaukee rookies sighed and remarked , `` wish i was 40 , and a top-grade big leaguer .
but there surely can be no doubt about the slender southpaw belonging with the all-time great lefthanders in the game's history .
spahn not only is a superior pitcher but a gentlemanly fine fellow , a ball player's ball player , as they say in the trade .
`` spahnie doesn't know how to merely go through the motions '' , remarked enos slaughter , another all-out guy , who played rightfield that day and popped one over the clubhouse .
incidentally , only two did it before a home audience .
ed delahanty and chuck klein of the phillies , the braves' joe adcock , lou gehrig of the yankees , pat seerey of the white sox and rocky colavito , then with cleveland , made their history on the road .
this is an issue which boils down to a matter of opinion , depending on whether you're an american or national fan and anti or pro-yankee .
in four of his nine previous seasons mays hit as many as 25 home runs and stole as many as 25 bases .
willie's lifetime batting average of is 11 points beyond mickey's .
it will forever be a baseball mystery how a team will suddenly start hitting after a distressing slump .
this rule providing for a blackout of televised baseball 30 minutes before the start of a major or minor league game in any area comes from the game's top rulers .
actually they were helpless to do anything about the nationwide policy .
there are two more sunday afternoons when the situation will arise .
you would be surprised how many fans purposely stayed away from bears stadium last year because of the television policy .
cincinnati , ohio ( ap )
with mickey mantle and yogi berra both out of action due to injuries , the american league champs still mounted a 15-hit attack against a parade of eight cincinnati pitchers , the most ever used by one team in a series game .
hector lopez , subbing for berra , smashed a 3-run homer off bill henry during another 5-run explosion in the fourth .
the crowd of 32,589 had only two chances to applaud .
momentarily the reds were back in the ball game , trailing only 6-3 , but the drive fizzled when john edwards fouled out with men on second and third and two out .
the yankee triumph made ralph houk only the third man to lead a team to both a pennant and a world series victory in his first year as a manager .
philadelphia , jan. 23
skorich received a three-year contract at a salary believed to be between $20,000 and $25,000 a year .
the appointment was announced at a news conference at which skorich said he would retain two members of shaw's staff -- jerry williams and charlie gauer .
gauer works with the ends .
the selection had been expected .
van brocklin , the quarterback who led the eagles to the title , was signed by the vikings last wednesday .
with skorich at the helm , the eagles are expected to put more emphasis on running , rather than passing .
skorich , however , is a strong advocate of a balanced attack -- split between running and passing .
skorich , who is 39 years old , played football at cincinnati university and then had a three-year professional career as a lineman under jock sutherland with the pittsburgh steelers .
he began his coaching career at pittsburgh central catholic high school in 1949 .
he was there one season before rejoining the steelers as an assistant coach .
the eagles signed him for shaw's staff in 1959 .
at a ceremony in the reception room of mayor richardson dilworth , the eagles were honored for winning the championship .
with the announcement of a `` special achievement award '' to william a. ( ( bill ) shea , the awards list was completed yesterday for sunday night's thirty-eighth annual dinner and show of the new york chapter , baseball writers' association of america , at the waldorf-astoria hotel .
frank graham , the journal-american sports columnist ; ;
stengel will receive the ben epstein good guy award .
graham will be recognized for his meritorious service to baseball and will get the william j. slocum memorial award .
show follows ceremonies
the 53-year-old shea , a prominent corporation lawyer with a sports background , is generally recognized as the man most responsible for the imminent return of a national league club to new york .
his goal was to obtain a national league team for this city .
despite countless barriers and disappointments , shea moved forward .
when that failed , he enlisted branch rickey's aid in the formation of a third major league , the continental , with new york as the key franchise .
flushing stadium in works
a big-league municipal stadium at flushing meadow park is in the works , and once the lease is signed the local club will be formally recognized by commissioner ford c. frick .
shea and his wife , nori , make their home at sands point , l. i. .
shea was born in manhattan .
he played basketball there while working toward a law degree .
he was the lawyer for ted collins' old boston yankees in the national football league .
on friday , roger maris , the yankee outfielder and winner of the american league's most-valuable-player award , will meet with roy hamey , the general manager .
arnold palmer and sam snead will be among those honored at the national awards dinner of the metropolitan golf writers association tonight .
palmer , golf's leading money-winner in 1960 , and snead will be saluted as the winning team in the canada cup matches last june in dublin .
the writers' gold tee award will go to john mcauliffe of plainfield , n. j. , and palm beach , fla. , for his sponsorship of charity tournaments .
the principal speaker will be senator stuart symington , democrat of missouri .
arnold palmer has been a blazing figure in golf over the past twelve months .
he was heralded as `` sportsman of the year '' by sports illustrated , and last night was acclaimed in rochester as the `` professional athlete of the year '' , a distinction that earned for him the $10,000 diamond-studded hickok belt .
a couple of weeks ago , he scored a monstrous 12 on a par-5 hole .
and it also stayed the hands of thousands of brooding incompetents who were meditating the abandonment of a sport whose frustrations were driving them to despair .
it was neither a spirit of self-sacrifice nor a yen to encourage the downtrodden that motivated arnold .
the world's best golfer , shooting below par , came to the last hole of the opening round of the los angeles open with every intention of delivering a final crusher .
then the pixies and the zombies took over while the banshees wailed in the distance .
on the narrow fairway of a 508-yard hole , arnold whipped into his second shot .
he tried again and once more sliced out of bounds .
`` it is possible that i over-corrected '' , he said ruefully .
so he wound up with a dozen .
from the standpoint of the army of duffers , however , this was easily the most heartening exhibition they had had since ben hogan fell upon evil ways during his heyday and scored an 11 in the texas open .
their secondary hero is another pro , willie chisholm , who drank his lunch during another open and tried to blast his way out of a rock-strewn gully .
stickler for rules
asked willie at one stage of his excavation project .
`` nae , man '' , said willie , `` ye must be countin' the echoes '' .
palmer's dozen were honestly earned .
if there had been , he would have found a loophole , because arnold is one golfer who knows the code as thoroughly as the man who wrote the book .
his first shot in the open last year landed in a brook that flowed along the right side of the fairway .
a spectator picked up the ball and handed it to a small boy , who dropped this suddenly hot potato in a very playable lie .
joe naturally ruled that a ball be dropped from alongside the spot where it had originally entered the stream .
for a serious young man who plays golf with a serious intensity , palmer has such an inherent sense of humor that it relieves the strain and keeps his nerves from jangling like banjo strings .
he'll even bull head-on into the rules when he is sure he's right .
it happened on the twelfth hole , a 155-yarder .
ruling from on high
asked palmer of an official .
`` you must play it where it lies '' .
`` i'll do as you say , but i'll also play a provisional ball and get a ruling '' .
the golfing fathers ruled in his favor .
until a few weeks ago , however , arnold palmer was some god-like creature who had nothing in common with the duffers .
a formula to supply players for the new minneapolis vikings and the problem of increasing the 1961 schedule to fourteen games will be discussed by national football league owners at a meeting at the hotel warwick today .
the owners would like each club in the fourteen-team league to play a home-and-home series with teams in its division , plus two games against teams in the other division .
pete rozelle , the league commissioner , pointed out :
nine of the league's teams play in baseball parks and therefore face an early-season conflict in dates .
`` pittsburgh definitely is the team to beat '' , mauch said here the other day .
they have the same men , no age problem , no injuries and they also have vinegar bend mizell for the full season , along with bobby shantz '' .
the pirates have a 9-6 record this year and the redbirds are 7-9 .
solly hemus announced a switch in his starting pitcher , from bob gibson to ernie broglio , for several reasons : 1 broglio's 4-0 won-lost record and 1.24 earned-run mark against pittsburgh a year ago ; ;
3 the redbirds' disheartening 11-7 collapse against the phillies sunday .
after thursday's open date , solly plans to open with larry jackson against the cubs here friday night .
boyer is suffering from a stiff neck .
pirate manager danny murtaugh said he hadn't decided between mizell and vern law for wednesday's game .
nieman kept in lineup .
that means stan musial probably will ride the bench on the seventh anniversary of his record five-home run day against the giants .
`` bill white ( sore ankles ) should be ready .
`` lindy mcdaniel threw batting practice about 25 minutes , and he looked good '' , hemus said .
our pitching is much better than it has shown '' .
six bucks over .
despite the recession , pittsburgh came into town with this imposing list of averages : smoky burgess , gino cimoli , bill virdon , bob clemente and dick groat , each
and bob skinner
bill mazeroski with and hal smith with were the only pirates dragging their feet .
friend is off to a great start with a 4-0 record but isn't likely to see action here this week .
`` virdon has been blasting the ball .
six bucs over .
on last may 1 , the cardinals stood at 7-6 , ending a two-season fall-off on that milestone .
a year later they were 4-13 .
the '49 team was off to a so-so 5-5 beginning , then fell as low as 12-17 on may 23 before finishing with 96 victories .
then last season the birds tumbled as low as 11-18 on may 19 before recovering to make a race of it and total 86 victories .
those dodgers won their first 10 games and owned a 21-2 mark and a nine-game lead by may 8 .
they honored the battling billikens last night .
the most valuable player award was split three ways , among glen mankowski , gordon hartweger and tom kieffer .
`` you often hear people talk about team spirit and that sort of thing '' , benington said in a conversation after the ceremonies , `` but what this team had was a little different .
they knew what they could do and it was often a little more than i thought they could do .
we'd be losing at halftime to a good team and hartweger would say , ' don't worry , coach -- we'll get 'em all right ' '' .
kieffer , the only junior in the group , was commended for his ability to hit in the clutch , as well as his all-round excellent play .
benington said , `` i've never seen a player have a game as great as mankowski did against bradley that day '' .
after the coach listed all the boy's faults , hartweger said , `` coach before i leave here , you'll get to like me '' .
as hartweger accepted his silver bowl , he said , `` i want to thank coach's wife for talking him into letting me play '' .
bevo was congratulated for his efforts to stay in shape so that he could help the team if his knee healed in time .
on the clock given him was the inscription , `` for outstanding contribution to billiken basketball , 1960-61 '' .
`` this team set a precedent that could be valuable in the future '' , benington pointed out .
st. louis university found a way to win a baseball game .
the victory was the first of the season for the billikens after nine defeats and a tie .
scherer also had a big night at bat with four hits in five trips including a double , len boehmer also was 4-for-5 with two doubles and dave ritchie had a home run and a triple .
the game opened a busy week for washington .
happy hitting
the two top talents of the time , mickey mantle and willie mays , have hit the ball harder and more successfully so far this early season than at any period in careers which , to be frank about it , never have quite reached expectations .
mays and mantle , both 10-year men at 30 , have so much ability that , baseball men agree , they've never hit the heights .
mantle , the bull-necked blond switch-hitter , had one sensational triple-crown season , 1959 , when he batted and also led the american league in home runs , 52 , and rbi's , 130 .
his best years were 1954 when he hit with 41 homers and '55 when he belted 51 home runs , drove in 127 and stole 24 bases .
labor relations
the truth is , though , that men react differently to different treatment .
mantle , it's apparent , resented casey stengel's attempts to push and prod him into the perfection the veteran manager saw as a thrilling possibility .
stengel inherited dimaggio , rizzuto , but he brought up mantle from class c to the majors , from joplin to new york .
stengel probably preached too much in the early days when the kid wanted to pop his bubble gum and sow his oats .
the major decided that , rather than be led , the slugger could lead .
the opinion continues here that with a 162-game schedule , pitching spread thin through a 10-team league and a most inviting target in los angeles' wrigley field jr. , mantle just might break the most glamorous record on the books , babe ruth's 60 homers of 1927 .
mays' day came a day earlier for willie than for the kids and commies this year .
next to leo durocher , dark taught mays the most when he was a grass-green rookie rushed up to the polo grounds 10 years ago this month , to help the giants win a dramatic pennant .
only the families and a dozen close friends will be present .
in the small group will be the junior and senior mrs. walter monroe ; ;
and his brother , mr. wendell jr. , and his wife , who will arrive from boston .
also present will be the bride's children , joan , 13 , and kirkland , 11 .
the bridegroom's children were here for the christmas holidays and can't return .
their mother is mrs. camilla alsop wendell .
they will take a wedding trip later .
`` we are back with the ' met ' again now that the ' met ' is back in chicago '' , bulletins mrs. frank s. sims , president of the women's board of the university of chicago cancer research foundation .
birgit nilsson will be starred .
the board's last money raising event was a performance by harry belafonte -- `` quite off-beat for this group '' , decided some of the members .
her husband recently was appointed vice president of the university , bringing them back here from the east .
because of the recent death of the bride's father , frederick b. hamm , the marriage of miss terry hamm to john bruce parichy will be a small one at noon tomorrow in st. bernadine's church , forest park .
mrs. hamm will not come from vero beach , fla. , for the wedding .
the beadles formerly lived in lake forest .
mr. and mrs. stevens and the bride's other uncles and aunts , the rush c. butlers , the homer e. robertsons , and the david q. porters , will give the bridal dinner tonight in the stevenses' home .
the chicago press club will fete george e. barnes , president of the united states lawn tennis association , at a cocktail party and buffet supper beginning at 5:30 p.m. tomorrow .
with loud huzzahs for the artistic success of the presbyterian-st. luke's fashion show still ringing in her ears , its director , helen tieken geraghty ( mrs. maurice p. geraghty ) is taking off tomorrow on a 56 day world trip which should earn her even greater acclaim as director of entertainment for next summer's international trade fair .
`` we ( the chicago association of commerce and industry ) expect to establish closer relations with nations and their cultural activities , and it will be easy as a member of the fair staff to bring in acts '' , explains mrs. geraghty .
i'm even going to try to get the whirling dervishes of damascus '' ! !
first , honolulu
then japan , hong kong , manila , india , pakistan , damascus , beirut , and to rome , london , and paris `` to look over wonderful talent '' .
the geraghtys' youngest daughter , molly , bows in the passavant debutante cotillion the next night .
also , invitations have been addressed to molly's debut tea the afternoon of dec. 29 in the arts club .
the international theme will be continued with the balkan strings playing for a dinner the byron harveys will give in the racquet club after the tea .
burke-rostagno
he is aldo rostagno , son of the guglielmo rostagnos of florence whom the burkes met last year in europe .
miss burke , a graduate of miss hall's school , stayed on in florence as a career girl .
he will be coming here on business in december , when the wedding is to take place in wayne .
here and there
mrs. william odell , mrs. clinton b. king , john holabird jr. , norman boothby , and actress maureen o'sullivan will judge the costumes in the grand march at the affaire old towne bal masque tomorrow in the germania club .
lyon around : columnist walter winchell , well and rat-a-tat-tatty again , wheeled thru town between trains yesterday en route to his phoenix , ariz. , rancho , portable typewriter in hand .
pretty sunny ainsworth , the ex-mrs. tommy manville and the ex-mrs. bud arvey , joined playboy-show-biz illustrated , as a promotional copy writer .
you can get into an argument about fallout shelters at the drop of a beer stein in clubs and pubs these nights .
comic gary morton signed to play the living room here dec. 18 , because that's the only time his heart , lucille ball , can come along .
the living room has another scoop : jane russell will make one of her rare night club singing appearances there , opening jan. 22 .
johnny ray , at the same l. r. , has something to cry about .
a medico's injection inflamed a nerve , and johnny can barely walk .
as we bulletin'd way back , he'll wed pretty rosemary strafaci , of the golf mag staff , in n. y. c. today .
george simon , exec director of danny thomas a. l. s. a. c. ( aiding leukemia stricken american children ) fund raising group , filled me in on the low-down phonies who are using phones to solicit funds for danny's st. jude hospital in memphis .
the only current event they're staging is the big show at the stadium nov. 25 , when danny will entertain thousands of underprivileged kids .
so , if anybody solicits by phone , make sure you mail the dough to the above .
she'll move to gotham after years in paris .
d. d. will pop up with u-i chief milt rackmil at the carnegie theater tomorrow to toast 300 movie exhibitors .
whee the people : lovely thrush annamorena gave up a promising show biz career to apply glamor touches to her hubby , ray lenobel's fur firm here .
in honor of the wackers' new baby .
emcee jack herbert insists dick nixon's campaign slogan for governor of california is , `` knight must fall '' ! !
it's one of our town's worthiest charities .
dave trager , who is quite a showman and boss of chicago's new pro basketball packers , is debuting a new international club , for the exclusive use of season ticket holders , in the stock yards inn .
nobody's mentioned it , but when ol' casey stengel takes over as boss of the new york mets , he'll be the only baseballight ever to wear the uniform of all new york area clubs , past and present : yankees , dodgers , giants , and now the mets .
the jotted lyon : this mad world dept. : khrush and the kremlin crowd are confident all right .
more : on the free world side .
hmpf but on to the frothier side johnny weissmuller , the only real tarzan , telephoned maureen o'sullivan , his first `` jane '' ( now at drury lane ) and muttered , `` me tarzan , this jane '' ? ?
actually johnny is a glib , garrulous guy , with a rare sense of humor .
he kids his tarzan roles more than anyone .
my idea of masterful movie making .
william keeps up with our town's doings daily , via the tribune , and he tells me he never misses the ticker .
jean fardulli's blue angel is the first top local club to import that crazy new dance , the twist .
a cheer here for francis lorenz , state treasurer , who will meet with the probate advisory board of the chicago bar association , for suggestions on how to handle the opening of safety deposit boxes after somebody dies .
music for dancing will be furnished by allen uhles and his orchestra , who will play each saturday during june .
gene marshall , genial manager of the club , has announced that the garden of the gods will open to members thursday , june 1 .
mrs. j. edward hackstaff and mrs. paul luette are planning a luncheon next week in honor of mrs. j. clinton bowman , who celebrates her birthday on tuesday .
grandparents are mr. and mrs. robert l. chase and mr. and mrs. guy mullenax of kittredge .
back to w. coast
mrs. john c. vroman jr. of manzanola is spending several days in her sherman plaza apartment .
brig. gen. and mrs. robert f. mcdermott will entertain at a black tie dinner wednesday , may 3 , in the officers' club at the air force academy .
mr. and mrs. piero de luise will honor italian consul and mrs. emilio bassi at a cocktail party tuesday , may 2 , from 6 to 8 p.m. in their home .
there will be a stag dinner friday evening at the denver country club which will precede the opening of the 1961 golf season .
miss betsy parker was one of the speakers on the panel of the eastern women's liberal arts college panel on wednesday evening in the security life bldg. .
fashion show
the event , staged yearly by neusteters , will be held in the opera house wednesday , aug. 16 .
mrs. roger mead is head of the luncheon table decorations .
members of the committee include mrs. milton bernet , mrs. j. clinton bowman , mrs. rollie w. bradford , mrs. samuel butler jr. , mrs. donald carr campbell , mrs. douglas carruthers , mrs. john c. davis 3 , , mrs. cris dobbins , mrs. william e. glass , mrs. alfred hicks 2 , , mrs. donald magarrell , mrs. willett moore , mrs. myron neusteter , mrs. richard gibson smith , mrs. james s. sudier 2 , and mrs. thomas welborn .
mr. and mrs. andrew s. kelsey of washington , d.c. , announce the birth of a daughter , kira ann kelsey , on monday in washington , d.c. .
mrs. kelsey is the former miss ann rickenbaugh .
those qualities make esther marr a popular asset at the salvation army's social center at 1200 larimer st. .
her position covers a number of daily tasks common to any social director .
`` mom '' marr , as the more than 80 men at the center call her , is the link that helps to bridge the gulf between alcoholics and the outside world and between parolees and society .
mrs. marr is the first contact a skid row figure talks to after he decides he wants to pick himself up .
`` usually at this point a man is withdrawn from society and one of my jobs is to see that he relearns to mingle with his fellow men '' , mrs. marr explained .
`` and i bum tickets to everything i can '' , she said .
in addition to the tickets to the movies , sporting events and concerts , mrs. marr lines up candy and cookies because alcoholics require a lot of sweets to replace the sugar in their system .
by mid-june , millions of americans will take to the road on vacation trips up and down and back and forth across this vast and lovely land .
by july 1 , six weeks from now , motel-keepers all over the nation will , by 6 p.m. , be switching on that bleak -- to motorists -- sign , `` no vacancy '' .
and where is `` home '' , that magic place of the heart ? ?
home is where a man was born , reared , went to school and , most particularly , where grandma is .
the land lies ready for the coming onslaught .
set for influx
i hope it can be said without boasting that no other nation offers its vacationing motorists such variety and beauty of scene , such an excellent network of roads on which to enjoy it and such decent , far-flung over-night accommodations .
there are motels for all purposes and all tastes .
there the royal motel advertises `` all facilities , vented heat , air conditioned , carpeted , free tv , storm cellar '' .
innumerable motels from tucson to new york boast swimming pools ( `` swim at your own risk '' is the hospitable sign poised at the brink of most pools ) .
but the royal motel in shamrock was the only one that offered the comfort and security of a storm cellar .
all for $14 ! !
all for $14 .
oxnard , calif. , will be the home of the rev. robert d. howard and his bride , the former miss judith ellen gay , who were married saturday at the munger place methodist church .
the bridegroom is the son of mrs. james baines of los angeles , calif. , and carl e. howard of santa monica , calif. .
dr. w. b. i. martin officiated , and the bride was given in marriage by her father .
the couple will honeymoon in sequoia national park , calif. .
the bride , daughter of rhodes semmes baker jr. of houston and the late mrs. baker , was president of kappa kappa gamma and a member of mortar board at aj .
the rev. richard freeman of texas city officiated and charles pabor and mrs. marvin hand presented music .
she wore a court-length gown of organdy designed with bateau neckline and princesse skirt accented by lace appliques .
miss mary ross of baird was maid of honor , and bridesmaids were miss pat dawson of austin , mrs. howard m. dean of hinsdale , ill. , and mrs. james a. reeder of shreveport , la. .
lee jackson and ken smith , both of houston , and alfred neumann of beaumont seated guests .
they will live in corpus christi .
they will live at 2705 fitzhugh after a wedding trip to corpus christi .
the rev. melvin carter officiated at the ceremony in slaughter chapel of the first baptist church .
she wore a gown of satin designed along princesse lines and featuring a flared skirt and lace jacket with bateau neckline .
miss glenda kay meredith of denton was her sister's maid of honor , and vernon lewelleyn of san angelo was best man .
a reception was held at the church .
the bride , daughter of mr. and mrs. charles ervin glison of pampa , has attended texas woman's university and will continue her studies at aj .
the women have a reputation for giving parties that are different and are fun and this year's promises to follow in this fine tradition .
the louisiana city is known , of course , for its fine food , good music and its colorful hospitality `` and , when guests arrive at philmont that night '' , says mrs. grinsfelder , `` that is exactly what we expect to offer them .
the prospects look great .
but we can't tell it all now and then have no new excitement later '' .
but she does indicate festivities will start early , that a jazz combo will `` give with the basin street beat '' during the cocktail and dinner hours and that lester lanin's orchestra will take over during the dancing .
`` new orleans '' ? ?
it is just bad luck that we are having the party in a month with no r's , so no oysters .
i know they will be good .
scenic effects
there will be masses of flowers , reproductions of the handsome old buildings with their grillwork and other things that are typical of new orleans .
the gala is the thrift shop's annual bundle party and , as all thrift shop friends know , that means the admission is a bundle of used clothing in good condition , contributions of household equipment , bric-a-brac and such to stock the shelves at the shop's headquarters at 1213 walnut st. .
for the convenience of guests bundle centers have been established throughout the city and suburbs where the donations may be deposited between now and the date of the big event .
members of the young set who would like to come to the party only during the dancing time are welcomed .
some idea of the competence of the women is indicated in the contribution made by them during the past 25 years that totals $840,000 .
`` big business , this little thrift shop business '' , say the members .
in the past few years the men , mostly husbands of members , have taken an interest .
mrs. theodore kapnek is vice chairman of the committee for the gala .
mrs. arthur loeb is making arrangements for a reception ; ;
mrs. harry m. rose , jr. , for secretarial duties ; ;
mr. and mrs. b. lewis kaufnabb , for senior aides , and mrs. samuel p. weinberg , for the bundles .
besides the bundle centers where contributions may be made there will be facilities at philmont country club for those who would like to bring the bundles on the night of the party .
mrs. robert o. spurdle is chairman of the committee , which includes mrs. james a. moody , mrs. frank c. wilkinson , mrs. ethel coles , mrs. harold g. lacy , mrs. albert w. terry , mrs. henry m. chance , 2d , mrs. robert o. spurdle , jr. , mrs. harcourt n. trimble , jr. , mrs. john a. moller , mrs. robert zeising , mrs. william g. kilhour , mrs. hughes cauffman , mrs. john l. baringer and mrs. clyde newman .
models will be mrs. samuel b. d. baird , mrs. william h. meyle , jr. , mrs. richard w. hole , mrs. william f. harrity , mrs. robert o. spurdle , mrs. e. h. kloman , mrs. robert w. wolcott , jr. , mrs. frederick c. wheeler , jr. , mrs. william a boyd , mrs f. vernon putt .
each year he invites the boys to camp out on his estate for one of their big week ends of the year .
`` we worry '' , say the mothers .
the boys love it '' .
they all are of wayne .
a preview party for sponsors of the event and for the artists is set for april 8 .
proceeds will be used by the section to further its program in science , education and social action on local , national and international levels .
mrs. monte tyson , chairman , says the work of 100 artists well known in the delaware valley area will be included in the exhibition and sale .
mr. shoettle has agreed to do a portrait of the family of the person who wins the door prize .
it originated with the wissahickon section .
others assisting
assisting as chairmen of various committees are mrs. alvin blum , mrs. leonard malmud , mrs. edward fernberger , mrs. robert cushman .
dr. and mrs. n. volney ludwick have had as guests mr. and mrs. john j. evans , jr. , of `` kimbolton house '' , rockhall , md. .
mrs. a. voorhees anderson entertained at a luncheon at her home , on monday .
mr. and mrs. major morris and their son-in-law and daughter , mr. and mrs. thomas glennon , and their children will spend several days in brigantine , n. j. .
mr. and mrs. charles marella announce the engagement of their daughter , miss mary ann marella , to mr. robert l. orcutt , son of mr. and mrs. donald r. orcutt , of drexel hill .
mr. and mrs. frederick heinze are entertaining mr. walter lehner , of vienna ; ;
mr. and mrs. harry d. hoaps , jr. have returned to their home in drexel park , after spending some time in delray beach fla. .
cmdr. warren taylor , usn. , and mrs. taylor , of e. greenwich , r. i. , will have with them for the easter holidays the latter's parents , mr. and mrs. john b. walbridge , of drexel hill .
mrs. william h. merner , of drexel park , entertained at a luncheon at her home on wednesday .
mrs. h. e. godwin will entertain the members of her book club at her home on tuesday .
the marriage will be quietly celebrated in early february .
her mother is the former miss stella hayward .
their majesties , the queen of carnival and the queen of comus , have jointly issued invitations for shrove tuesday evening at midnight at which time they will entertain in the grand ballroom of a downtown hotel following the balls of rex and comus .
debutante miss lady helen hardy will be feted at luncheon this tuesday at which the hostess will be mrs. edwin socola of waveland , miss. .
another debutante , miss virginia richmond , will also be the honoree this wednesday at luncheon at which mrs. john dane , will be hostess entertaining at a downtown hotel .
when the achaeans entertained wednesday last at their annual carnival masquerade ball , miss margaret pierson was chosen to rule over the festivities , presented at the muncipal auditorium and chosen as her ladies in waiting were misses clayton nairne , eleanor eustis , lynn chapman , irwin leatherman of robinsonville , miss. and helene rowley .
the mother of young queen , mrs. g. henry pierson jr. chose a white brocade gown made on slim lines with panels of tomato-red and bright green satin extending down the back .
mrs. clayton nairne , whose daughter , was among the court maids , chose a deep greenish blue lace gown .
mrs. peter feringa jr. , last year's achaeans' queen , chose an eggshell white filmy lace short dress made with a wide decolletage trimmed with an edging of tulle .
the baltimore and ohio railroad announced yesterday it would reduce the total amount of its payroll by 10 per cent through salary cuts and lay-offs effective at 12:01 a.m. next saturday .
howard e. simpson , the railroad's president , said , `` a drastic decline in freight loading due principally to the severe slump in the movement of heavy goods has necessitated this regrettable action '' .
salary cut and lay-offs
a flat reduction of 10 per cent in the salary of all officers , supervisors and other employees not belonging to unions .
2
since the railroad cannot reduce the salary of individual union members under contract , it must accomplish its payroll reduction by placing some of the men on furlough , a b. & o. spokesman said .
the spokesman said the number to be furloughed cannot be estimated since the lay-offs must be carried out in each area depending on what men are most needed on the job .
the victim , norman b. wiley , 38 , of the 900 block north charles street , was treated for cuts at franklin square hospital after the robbery .
the victim was beaten when he attempted to stop the bandit .
in another attack , samuel verstandig , 41 , proprietor of a food store in the 2100 block aiken street , told police two negroes assaulted him in his store and stole $150 from the cash register after choking and beating him .
the victim darnell somerville , negro , 1 , was pronounced dead on arrival at anne arundel general hospital in annapolis .
the girl was in critical condition with burns over 90 per cent of her body .
the boy received second-degree burns of the face , neck and back .
police said the children's mother , mrs. eleanor somerville , was visiting next door when the fire occurred .
annapolis , jan. 7
the proposal was made by dr. david s. jenkins after he and mrs. d. ellwood williams , jr. , a board member and long-time critic of the superintendent , argued for about fifteen minutes at this week's meeting .
cites discrepancies
`` i hate to have these things come up again and again '' , dr. jenkins commented as he made his suggestion .
i'll write what you tell me to '' .
it was about that time , a board member said later , that dr. thomas g. pullen , jr. , state superintendent of schools , told dr. jenkins and a number of other education officials that he would not talk to them with a recording machine sitting in front of him .
dr. jenkins notes , however , that most of the school boards in the state do not do so .
he was taken to university hospital in a municipal ambulance .
his condition was said to be , `` fair '' .
barber summoned
the vice president of the city council complained yesterday that there are `` deficiencies '' in the city's snow clearing program which should be corrected as soon as possible .
werner criticized
he said the snow plan was put in effect too slowly in december .
the councilman , who is the administration floor leader , also criticized bernard l. werner , public works director , for `` halting snow operations '' on tuesday night after the sunday storm .
mr. werner said yesterday that operations continued through the week .
work resumed wednesday , he said .
admitting that main streets and the central business district should have priority , the councilman said it is also essential that small shopping areas `` not be overlooked if our small merchants are to survive '' .
annapolis , jan. 7 ( special )
the victims were h. malone dresbach , 47 , and his wife , shirley , 46 .
automatic rifle , according to capt. elmer hagner , chief of anne arundel detectives .
the circuit court jurist said the boy will have a hearing in juvenile court .
soon after 10 a.m. , when police reached the 1-1/2-story brick home in the franklin manor section , 15 miles south of here on the bay , in response to a call from the dresbach's other son , lee , 14 , they found mrs. dresbach's body on the first-floor bedroom floor .
the younger son told police his brother had run from the house after the shootings and had driven away in their mother's car .
two brothers adopted
trooper j. a. grzesiak spotted the wanted car , with three boys , at a route 2 service station , just outside annapolis .
annapolis , jan. 7
mr. simpkins will move into the post being vacated by thomas b. finan , earlier named attorney general to succeed c. ferdinand sybert , who will be elevated to an associate judgeship on the maryland court of appeals .
simpkins from somerset
now 38 , mr. simpkins was graduated from the university of maryland's college of agriculture in 1947 .
mr. simpkins made a name for himself as a member of the house of delegates from 1951 through 1958 .
maryland contracts for future construction during october totaled $77,389,000 , up to 10 per cent compared to october , 1960 , f. w. dodge , dodge corporation , reported .
nonresidential at $20,447,000 , down 28 per cent ; ;
and heavy engineering at $9,841,000 , down 45 per cent .
a breakdown of the ten-month total showed :
residential at $278,877,000 , up 12 per cent ; ;
residential building consists of houses , apartments , hotels , dormitories and other buildings designed for shelter .
in 1961 , it is estimated that multiple unit dwellings will account for nearly 30 per cent of the starts in residential construction .
although economic and personal circumstances vary widely among those now choosing apartments , leo j. pantas , vice president of a hardware manufacturing company , pointed out recently that many apartment seekers seem to have one characteristic in common : a desire for greater convenience and freedom from the problems involved in maintaining a house .
`` convenience is therefore the key to the housing market today .
sixty-seven living units are being added to the 165-unit harbor view apartments in the cherry hill section .
various of the apartments are of the terrace type , being on the ground floor so that entrance is direct .
the structures housing the apartments are of masonry and frame construction .
construction in 1962 will account for about 15 per cent of the gross national product , according to a study by johns-manville corporation .
-- vital secrets of britain's first atomic submarine , the dreadnought , and , by implication , of the entire united states navy's still-building nuclear sub fleet , were stolen by a london-based soviet spy ring , secret service agents testified today .
it is a killer sub -- that is , a hunter of enemy subs .
its power unit , however , was derived from the reactor of the more modern american nuclear submarine skipjack .
the announcement that the secrets of the dreadnought had been stolen was made in bow st. police court here at the end of a three day hearing .
two british civil servants , miss ethel gee , 46 , and her newly devoted friend , harry houghton , 55 , and divorced .
gordon a. lonsdale , 37 , a mystery man presumed to be russian although he carries a canadian passport .
flashed to moscow
( in washington , the federal bureau of investigation identified the krogers as morris and lola cohen , an american couple formerly of new york city )
in their suburban cottage the crown charges , the krogers received secrets from the mystery man , usually on the first saturday evening of each month , and spent much of the week-end getting the secrets off to moscow , either on a powerful transmitter buried under the kitchen floor or as dots posted over period marks in used books .
all five pleaded innocent .
her young british lawyer , james dunlop , pleaded that she was sorely needed at her portland home by her widowed mother , 80 , her maiden aunt , also 80 and bedridden for 20 years , and her uncle , 76 , who once ran a candy shop .
`` i am not prepared to grant bail to any of them '' , said the magistrate , k.j.p. baraclough .
fourteen years is the maximum penalty now faced by the new five , who may have altered history in the 1960s .
he promptly went to communist east germany .
`` this is russian money '' , said mervin griffith-jones for the attorney general's office .
`` of highest value ''
but just before luncheon today the fact was announced grimly by the british navy's chief adviser to the cabinet on underwater warfare , capt. george symonds .
the information , he said , would have been of the highest value to a potential enemy .
just how many sub secrets were being handed over when the ring , watched for six months , was broken remained untold .
so in the name of justice the magistrate cleared the court of all except officials to allow the captain to elaborate for almost an hour .
britain began designing the ship in 1956 but got nowhere until the american government decided to end a ban on sharing military secrets with britain that had been imposed after fuchs blabbed .
with the machinery went a complete design for the hull .
navy's future involved
it was there that the two accused civil servants were at work .
the atom reactor , water cooled , was the result of almost a decade of research at the naval reactors branch of the atomic energy commission and westinghouse electric corp. .
the hull was also a result of almost a decade of work .
the skipjack became the fastest submarine ever built .
it could , reputedly , go 70,000 miles without refueling and stay down more than a month .
the navy captain disclosed also that a list of questions found in miss gee's purse would , if completed and handed back , have given the kremlin a complete picture `` of our current anti-submarine effort and would have shown what we are doing in research and development for the future '' .
the spy ring also was particularly interested in asdic , the underwater equipment for detecting submarines , it was testified .
designs of parts were sought .
oddly , the calls were still heard 11 days after the five were arrested .
the three -- miles j. cooperman , sheldon teller , and richard austin -- and eight other defendants are charged in six indictments with conspiracy to violate federal narcotic laws .
' had to know peddlers '
they , on occasion , posed as addicts and peddlers '' .
this , he added , brought about `` petty jealousies '' and `` petty personal grievances '' .
no comments by u.s.
attorneys for the eight other defendants said only that there was no proof of their clients' guilt .
among other acts , teller and austin are accused of paying $800 to sears .
but court adjourned after he testified he introduced james white and jeremiah hope pullings , two of the defendants , and also introduced pullings to jessy maroy , a man mentioned in the indictment but not indicted .
robinson was treated at a physician's office for a cut over his left eyebrow and a possible sprained knee .
robinson told policemen james jones and morgan lloyd of the wabash avenue district that 10 youths boarded his south bound express bus in front of dunbar vocational high school , 30th street and south park way , and began `` skylarking '' .
as he left the bus with his money bag , robinson added , the largest youth accosted him , a quarrel ensued , and the youth knocked him down .
mrs. blanche dunkel , 60 , who has spent 25 years in the dwight reformatory for women for the murder in 1935 of her son-in-law , ervin lang , then 28 , appealed for a parole at a hearing yesterday before two illinois pardon and parole board members , john m. bookwalter and joseph carpentier .
mrs. dunkel admitted the slaying and said that the son-in-law became her lover after the death of her daughter in 1934 .
the son of a wealthy evanston executive was fined $100 yesterday and forbidden to drive for 60 days for leading an evanston policeman on a high speed chase over icy evanston and wilmette streets jan. 20 .
stickney is a salesman for plee-zing , inc. , 2544 green bay rd. , evanston , a food brokerage and grocery chain firm , of which his father , william l. jr. , is president .
at jenks street , simms said , the car skidded completely around , just missed two parked cars , and sped east in jenks .
st. johns , mich. , april 19 .
pohl received the verdict without visible emotion .
stepson vindicated
mrs. hengesbach was killed on aug. 31 , 1958 .
when the verdict came in against his young neighbor , hengesbach said :
still , i don't wish to appear happy at somebody else's misfortune '' .
hengesbach , who has been living on welfare recently , said he hopes to rebuild the farm which was settled by his grandfather in westphalia , 27 miles southwest of here .
pohl confessed the arson while being questioned about several fires in the westphalia area by state police .
however , the confession , which was the only evidence against him , was retracted before the trial .
assistant prosecutor fred lewis , who tried both the hengesbach and pohl cases , said he did not know what would be done about two arson charges pending against pohl .
pohl could receive from 1 to 15 years in prison or probation .
locked in motel
the jury , which was locked up in a motel overnight , was canvassed at the request of walker after the verdict was announced .
she said the jurors agreed that pohl's confession was valid .
the verdict came three hours later .
the trial had packed the large courtroom for more than a week .
while neighbor women assumed some of the dead mother's duties , fund-raising events were being planned by a homeowners association and a student council for the hard-hit henry kowalski family , 34220 viceroy .
services tomorrow
the mother and daughter , who will be buried side by side in mt. olivet cemetery , rested together today in closed caskets at the lyle elliott funeral home , 31730 mound , warren .
held candle
christine's twin sister , patricia , and darlene kowalski , 8 , escaped with minor burns .
dennis , 6 ; ;
and bernardine , 1 .
kowalski , a roofer who seldom worked last winter , already was in arrears on their recently purchased split-level home when the tragedy staggered him with medical and funeral bills .
neighbor women , such as mrs. sidney baker , 2269 serra , sterling township , have been supplying the family with meals and handling household chores with kowalski's sister-in-law , mrs. anna kowalski , 22111 david , east detroit .
john c. houghton , president of the tareytown acres homeowners association , followed that by announcing plans last night for a door-to-door fund drive throughout their subdivision on behalf of the kowalski family .
houghton said 6 p.m. friday had been set for a canvass of all 480 homes in the subdivision , which is located northeast of dequindre and 14 mile road east .
vicky kowalski meanwhile learned that several of her fellow students had collected almost $25 for her family during the lunch hour yesterday at fuhrmann junior high school , 5155 fourteen mile road east .
funds from dances
`` furhmann's faculty is proud that this has been a spontaneous effort , started largely among the students themselves , because of fondness for vicky and sympathy for her entire family , pohly said .
expresses thanks
but today he wanted to make a public statement .
i wasn't sure there were such people anywhere in the world .
an alert 10-year-old safety patrol boy was congratulated by police today for his part in obtaining a reckless driving conviction against a youthful motorist .
kimmell said he and ralph were helping children across belvidere at kercheval monday afternoon when a car heading north on belvidere stopped belatedly inside the pedestrian crosswalk .
kimmell ordered the driver to back up , watched the children safely across and was approaching the car when it suddenly `` took off at high speed '' , he said , narrowly missing him .
returning to the school crossing , the officer was informed by the sisk boy that he recognized the driver , a neighbor , and had obtained the license number .
given 15 days
the jail sentence is to begin the day after sarkees graduates from eastern high school in june .
britain announced that it is asking the soviet union to agree tomorrow to an immediate cease-fire .
in vientiane , the royal laotian government decided today to ask its `` friends and neighbors '' for help in fighting what it called a new rebel offensive threatening the southeast asian kingdom .
he said britain also proposed that the international truce commission should be reconvened , sent to new delhi and from there to laos to verify the cease-fire .
plea for arms
he indicated that requests would be made for more u.s. arms and more u.s. military advisers .
one of the first moves made after a cabinet decision was to request the united states to establish a full-fledged military assistance group instead of the current civilian body .
heavy support
the minister , describing the attacks which led up to the appeal , said that 60,000 communist north vietnamese were fighting royal army troops on one front -- near thakhek , in southern-central laos .
in the past such government claims have been found exaggerated .
-- two americans and seven cubans were executed by firing squads today as castro military tribunals began decreeing the death penalty for captured invasion forces and suspected collaborators .
the executions took place at dawn only a few hours after havana radio announced their conviction by a revolutionary tribunal at pinar del rio , where the executions took place .
the broadcast said anderson , a seattle ex-marine and havana businessman , and mcnair , of miami , were condemned on charges of smuggling arms to cuban rebels .
anderson's wife and four children live in miami .
report others held
among them were a number of newsmen , including henry raymont , of united press international , and robert berrellez , of associated press .
more than 1,000 were said to have been arrested -- 100 of them roman catholic priests .
m. kegham -- the name is a pseudynom -- was a teacher in bucharest and a member of the armenian revolutionary federation ( arf ) -- two reasons the communists put him away when they arrived in 1945 .
emory university's board of trustees announced friday that it was prepared to accept students of any race as soon as the state's tax laws made such a step possible .
but an official statement adopted by the 33-man emory board at its annual meeting friday noted that state taxing requirements at present are a roadblock to accepting negroes .
`` emory could not continue to operate according to its present standards as an institution of higher learning , of true university grade , and meet its financial obligations , without the tax-exemption privileges which are available to it only so long as it conforms to the aforementioned constitutional and statutory provisions '' , the statement said .
an emory spokesman indicated , however , that the university itself did not intend to make any test of the laws .
at least two private colleges in the atlanta area now or in the past have had integrated student bodies , but their tax-exempt status never has been challenged by the state .
some church leaders , both clerical and lay , have criticized the university for not taking the lead in desegregation .
the student newspaper , the emory wheel , as early as the fall of 1954 called for desegregation .
teaching , research and study , according to highest standards , under christian influence , are paramount in the emory university policy .
`` there is not now , nor has there ever been in emory university's charter or by-laws any requirement that students be admitted or rejected on the basis of race , color or creed .
corporate existence
`` when and if it can do so without jeopardizing constitutional and statutory tax-exemption privileges essential to the maintenance of its educational program and facilities , emory university will consider applications of persons desiring to study or work at the university without regard to race , color or creed , continuing university policy that all applications shall be considered on the basis of intellectual and moral standards and other criteria designed to assure the orderly and effective conduct of the university and the fulfillment of its mission as an institution of christian higher education '' .
the dead youth was identified as robert e. sims , 19 , of 1688 oak knoll cir. , aj .
the other occupants were james willard olvey , 18 , of 963 ponce de leon ave. , ne , and larry coleman barnett , 19 , of 704 hill st. , se , both of whom were treated at grady hospital for severe lacerations and bruises .
the demands were set forth in letters to seven owners of first-run theaters by the committee on appeal for human rights .
`` we intend to attend the downtown theaters before the first of the year '' , the identically worded letters said .
they indicated that stand-ins and picketing would be started if theater owners failed to cooperate .
however , three of the managers did say that they would agree to attend the proposed meeting if all of the other managers decided to attend .
the coahr letter comes on the eve of a large gathering of theater managers and owners scheduled to begin here sunday .
student leaders began sporadic efforts to negotiate theater integration several months ago .
he declined to name the three .
failure to attend the meeting or explain inability to attend , the letters said , would be considered a `` sign of indifference '' .
a prepared statement released by the student group friday stated that `` extensive research by coahr into techniques and methods of theater integration in other cities indicated that the presence of picket lines and stand-ins before segregated theaters causes a drop in profits ''
r. e. killingsworth
mr. kililngsworth was a foreman with s and w cafeteria .
he was a member of the baptist church .
and two sisters , miss minnie kililngsworth and mrs. bessie bloom , both of gettysburg , pa. .
john william ball , 68 , of 133 marietta st. nw , apartment 101b , died sunday at his home .
he was a member of the oakland city methodist church and a native of atlanta .
survivors include his sister , mrs. emma b. odom of atlanta .
mrs. lola m. harris , a native of atlanta , died sunday at her home in garland , tex. .
two daughters , mrs. gene f. stoll and miss nancy harris , both of garland ; ;
a 24-year-old atlanta man was arrested sunday after breaking into the home of relatives in search of his wife , hitting his uncle with a rock and assaulting two police officers who tried to subdue him , police said .
police account
thomas early sunday went to the home of his uncle and aunt , mr. and mrs. r. c. thomas , 511 blanche st. , nw , looking for his wife , margaret lou thomas , 18 , and their 11-month-old baby .
he also struck his aunt and wife , and during the melee the baby also suffered scratches .
attacks officer
about five minutes later he jumped up , slate said , and struck the two policemen again .
then he attacked the two officers again and was again restrained , slate related .
thomas was charged with four counts of assault and battery .
a hearing was set for 30 a.m. tuesday .
over the weekend , mrs. self , personnel clerk , was a feted and honored guest of the atlanta club , organization of women employes at city hall .
as personnel clerk , she handled thousands of entries , ranging from appointments to jobs , to transfers to other employments , to pensions .
one of the largest crowds in the club's history turned out to pay tribute to mrs. self and her service .
the department is planning to expand its eradication program soon to four additional counties -- troup , pierce , bryan and bulloch -- to treat 132,000 acres infested by the ants , according to w. e. blasingame state entomologist .
the eradication effort is being pushed in bibb and jones counties , over 37,679 acres .
also being treated are houston , bleckley , tift , turner and dodge counties , blasingame said .
the north-bound entrance to the expressway at 14th street will be closed during the afternoon rush traffic hours this week .
students have been using electric computers and high speed movie cameras during the study .
incidentally , 14th street and the expressway is the high accident intersection during daylight hours .
the junction of the northeast and northwest expressways and jones avenue and marietta street , aj .
the latest death reported was that of 4-year-old claude douglas maynor of calvary .
that death occurred at 50 p.m. friday and was reported sunday , the patrol said .
an auto overturned , skidding into a stopped tractor-trailer and burst into flames near snellville , the patrol said .
salem ( special )
it is the only county in the state so far this month reporting a possible shortage in ga category , for which emergency allotment can be given by the state if necessary .
at the rate of need indicated in the early weeks of the month , this could mean a shortage of as high as $17,000 .
no request for emergency allotment had yet been received , however .
the commission , meeting for the first time with both of its newly-appointed commissioners , roy webster , of hood river , and dr. ennis keizer , of north bend , approved a year's contract for a consultant in the data processing department who has been the center of considerable controversy in the past .
field does the planning for the machine operations and fiscal processes and the adapting of the data processing system to new programs as they are made necessary by legislative and policy changes .
but he emphasized that the agency must train people within its own employ to fulfill what field handles , and he said he personally `` regrets very much that the agency has not done this in the past '' .
salary termed modest
he also said that the salary , in terms of going rates in the field , was `` modest '' in terms of the man's responsibility .
`` do you feel you can stand up to the next legislative session and defend this contract '' ? ?
`` my feeling at the moment '' , he said , `` is that we have no alternative , irrespective of some of the arguments about him .
harvey criticized
a publicity release from oregon physicians service , of which harvey is president , quoted him as saying the welfare office move to salem , instead of `` crippling '' the agency , had provided an avenue to correct administrative weaknesses , with the key being improved communications between f & a and the commission staff .
i think you fell short of the real truth in the matter : that the move is working out through the fine cooperation of the staff and all the people .
harvey said his objective was to create a better public image for welfare '' .
mrs. lavaughn huntley is accused of driving the getaway car used in a robbery of the woodyard bros.' grocery , 2825 e. burnside st. , in april of 1959 .
secret grand jury indictments were returned against the pair last week , detective murray logan reported .
taylor said mrs. huntley and her husband also will be questioned about a series of 15 portland robberies in spring of 1959 in which the holdup men bound their victims with tape before fleeing .
she was arrested by phoenix police after they received the indictment papers from portland detectives .
funeral for william joseph brett , 1926 ne 50th ave. , who died thursday in portland , will be monday 1 p.m. at the riverview abbey .
he owned a logging equipment business here from 1923 to 1928 , and later became northwest district manager for macwhyte co. .
survivors are his widow , alice ; ;
three sisters , mrs. eugene horstman , los angeles , mrs. lucy brett andrew , new york city , and mrs. beatrice kiefferm , new york city , and five grandchildren .
the nlrb said that of 11 potentially eligible voters eight voted against the union , two voted for it , and one vote was challenged .
he lived at 6124 n. willamette blvd. .
these included oregon state fair , for which he had been booked on and off , for 30 years .
he had conducted the 20-piece band in a series of concerts at blue lake park during the summer months .
he planned at one time to enter the legal profession , but gave up the plan in favor of the entertainment field .
al kader temple of the shrine ; ;
40 & 8 voiture , no. 25 , musician's union , local 99 .
survivors are his widow , tearle ; ;
a daughter , mrs. sidney s. stein jr. , dorenzo , calif. ; ;
two brothers , charley and aaron cohn , san francisco ; ;
services will be at 30 p.m. monday at holman & son funeral home , with interment in neveh zebek cemetery .
a 16-year-old portland businessman and his junior achievement company , have been judged the `` company of the year '' in national competition completed this week at ohio state university , columbus , ohio .
the award is the first such honor in the 11-year history of ja activities in portland , according to ralph scolatti , local executive director for junior achievement .
the `` pocket-size '' company set records with $2,170 in sales of its products , a selection of barbecue spices , and paid stockholders a 20 per cent dividend on their investment .
the junior achievement program is designed to give teenagers practical experience in business by allowing them actually to form small companies , under the guidance and sponsorship of business firms .
national competition was the culmination of work which began with the school year last fall and continued until just before summer vacation .
over 400 portland firms contributed funds for the maintenance of junior achievement headquarters here .
his company , spice-nice , will receive a $250 award , which will be distributed among the 16 charter members .
advisors for the `` national champion '' company were john k. morgan , william h. baker , leonard breuer and william f. stephenson , all of georgia-pacific corp. .
other members of the portland delegation attending the conference in columbus are : kathleen mason , jefferson high school ; ;
ann wegener , madison ; ;
karen kolb , franklin ; ;
hillsboro ( special )
on the day's schedule are a flower show , 4-h horsemanship contest and clown shows , the latter at 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. .
exhibition ballroom dancers from the studio of helen wick walters of hillsboro won the all-county talent contest .
finalists from the county's east end failed to place .
janet jossy of north plains won grand champion honors of the 4-h sheep showman contest .
joan zurcher of hillsboro , phyllis jossy of north plains , jane cox of north plains .
tom day of beaverton exhibited the grand champion 4-h market hog , a chester white .
swine showmanship championship went to bob day , with tom day and hutchins winning other blues .
in poultry judging , blues were won by john nyberg of tualatin , anne batchelder of hillsboro , jim shaw of hillsboro , stephanie shaw of hillsboro and lynn robinson of tigard .
in open class poultry , donald wacklin of sherwood had the champion male and female bird and grand champion bird .
carol strong , 13 , of cedar mill cooked the championship junior dollar dinner .
barbara borland of tigard took top senior individual home economics honors with a demonstration called filbert hats .
these were the last two days set aside by the board for hearing appeals .
about 75 persons appeared at that time .
they also will visit properties on which appeals have been made .
john pezza , 69 , of 734 hartford avenue , providence , complained of shoulder pains after an accident in which a car he was driving collided with a car driven by antonio giorgio , 25 , of 12 desoto st. , providence , on greenville avenue and cherry hill road in johnston yesterday .
both cars were slightly damaged .
mr. giorgio was uninjured .
mr. and mrs. stephen m. kochanek reported the theft at their home on 41 garden hills drive at about 6 last night .
a wallet with $450 in it ; ;
four rings , a watch and a set of pearl earrings .
the others were valued at $325 , $75 and $65 .
the kochaneks told police they left home at 8 a.m. and returned about 45 p.m. and found the house had been entered .
drawers and cabinets in two bedrooms and a sewing room were ransacked .
the division said it would be impossible to work on the line until then because of the large amount of acid sewage from jewelry plants in the area flowing through the line , heavy vehicle traffic on eddy street and tide conditions .
f. morris cochran , university vice president and business manager , said the house has been bought to provide rental housing for faculty families , particularly for those here for a limited time .
thomas rotelli , head of rhode island incinerator service , inc. , said four of the company's eight trucks were making collections with both newly hired and regular workers .
a 62-year-old smithfield man , lester e. stone of 19 beverly circle , was in satisfactory condition last night at our lady of fatima hospital , north providence , with injuries suffered when a car he was driving struck a utility pole on woonasquatucket avenue in north providence near stevens street .
he was taken to the hospital by the north providence ambulance .
mr. vernava was uninjured .
one house was without power for about half an hour , a narragansett electric co. spokesman said .
the fight over the warwick school committee's appointment of a coordinator of audio-visual education may go to the state supreme court , it appeared last night .
in its ruling , the state board of education upheld dr. michael f. walsh , state commissioner of education , who had ruled previously that the warwick board erred when it named maurice f. tougas as coordinator of audio-visual education without first finding that the school superintendent's candidate was not suitable .
milton and rosella lovett of cranston were awarded $55,000 damages from the state in superior court yesterday for industrial property which they owned at 83 atwells ave. , providence , and which was condemned for use in construction of interstate route 95 .
the award , without interest , compared with a valuation of $57,500 placed on the property by the property owners' real estate expert , and a valuation of $52,500 placed on it by the state's expert .
saul hodosh represented the owners .
santa's lieutenants in charge of the journal-bulletin santa claus fund are looking for the usual generous response this year from cranston residents .
all contributed will be acknowledged .
scores of cranston children will be remembered .
public school children have adopted the fund as one of their favorite christmas charities and their pennies , nickels , dimes and quarters aid greatly in helping santa to reach the fund's goal .
mr. parrillo was given first aid at johnston hose 1 .
the two had been hunting in the simmonsville area of town and mr. parrillo dropped the gun which fired as it struck the ground .
a check for $4,177.37 representing the last payment of a $50,000 federal grant to rhode island hospital was presented to the hospital administrator , oliver g. pratt , yesterday by governor notte .
the work added eight beds to the hospital , giving it a total capacity of 646 general beds .
the decoration will be presented by a. trichieri , italian consul general in boston , at a ceremony at 30 p.m. on dec. 7 at the plant , which this year is celebrating its golden anniversary .
mr. sorrentino will be honored on the evening of dec. 7 at a dinner to be given by the aurora club at the sheraton-biltmore hotel .
on sept. 6 , the kretchmer rescued the crew of a trawler they found drifting on a life raft after they had abandoned a sinking ship .
local authorities credited the men with saving the girl's life .
-- the fbi yesterday arrested on a perjury charge one of the members of the jury that failed to reach a verdict in the `` freedom rider '' bus burning trial four weeks ago .
he identified the man as lewis martin parker , 59 , a farmer of hartselle , ala. .
the bus was burned outside anniston .
a mistrial was declared in the case against the other seven when the jury was unable to agree on a verdict .
the first incident occurred before the trial got under way when judge h. hobart grooms told the jury panel he had heard reports of jury-tampering efforts .
two members of the panel later told in court about receiving telephone calls at their homes from anonymous persons expressing interest in the trial .
then , when the case went to the jury , the judge excused one of the jurors , saying the juror had told him he had been accosted by masked men at his motel the night before the trial opened .
the judge replaced the juror with an alternate .
at the opening of the trial , the jury panel was questioned as a group by mr. weaver about ku klux klan connections .
he was not seated on the jury .
new york -- ( upi )
the new president is 37-year-old dr. james mcn. hester , currently dean of the nyu graduate school of arts and sciences .
dr. hester , also one of the youngest men ever to head a major american university , succeeds dr. carroll v. newsom who resigned last september to join prentice-hall inc. publishing firm .
prior to that he was associated with long island university in brooklyn .
vast spraying programs conducted by `` technicians with narrow training and little wisdom '' are endangering crops and wildlife , carl w. buchheister , president of the national audubon society , said today .
buchheister told delegates to the west coast audubon convention that aerial spraying in louisiana failed to destroy its target , the fire ant .
the conservation leader said other mistakes in spraying had caused serious damage in ohio and wyoming .
`` the news of their experiments reaches the farmers who , forgetting that birds are the most efficient natural enemies of insects and rodents , are encouraged to try to get rid of all birds that occasionally peck their grapes or their blueberries '' , buchheister told the delegates .
preservation of the wetlands where birds breed ; ;
stronger water pollution control programs , and federal ratification of an international convention to halt pollution of the sea by oil .
mrs. norman livermore , president of the marin conservation league , handed over the deed to the 645-acre tidelands tract south of greenwood beach to carl w. buchheister , president of the society .
buchheister pledged the land would be an `` inviolate '' sanctuary for all birds , animals and plants .
the world war 2 , german bomber rolled down a runway and took off .
this had never been done before .
he sat in his office yesterday and recalled that historic flight in 1944 .
`` i had developed the machines and therefore knew them .
fiedler was then technical director of hitler's super-secret `` reichenberg project '' , which remained unknown to the allies until after the war .
the target was allied shipping -- a desperate effort to stave off the allied invasion of europe .
squeezed into the few cubic feet normally filled by the rocket's automatic guidance mechanism , the scientist waited while the bomber gained altitude .
to the german pilot in the bomber the rocket became a faint black speck , hurtling through the sky at the then incredible speed of 420 m.p.h. .
`` she flew beautifully '' , said fiedler .
i had exactly 20 minutes to get down to the test strip '' .
he managed to maneuver the missile to a landing speed of 200 m.p.h. -- fast even for a modern jet plane touchdown -- and banked into the airfield .
fiedler went on to make several other test flights before german pilots took over the reichenberg missiles .
pilots would steer them in a suicide dive into the water , striking below the waterline of individual ships .
now a family man with three children , fiedler lives in a quiet residential area near the lockheed plant at sunnyvale .
`` it's so quiet '' , he said , `` so slow , serene -- and so challenging '' .
other officers are angelo j. scampini , vice president , joseph v. arata , treasurer , and fred j. casassa , secretary .
elected to the board of directors were :
dr. albert schweitzer , world-famous theologian and medical missionary , has endorsed an easter march for disarmament which begins tomorrow in sunnyvale .
in a letter to the american friends service , dr. schweitzer wrote :
`` they cannot do otherwise than live in dread of each other since these weapons imply the possibility of such grisly surprise attack .
otherwise no peace is possible .
therefore we need guardians to demonstrate against the ghastly stupidity of nuclear weapons and jolt the people out of their complacency '' .
before he testified for 20 minutes , stein , who lives at 3300 lake shore dr. , admitted to reporters that he had a wide acquaintance with crime syndicate hoodlums .
among his gangland buddies , he said , were joseph ( joey ) glimco , a mob labor racketeer , and four gang gambling chiefs , gus ( slim ) alex , ralph pierce , joe ( caesar ) divarco , and jimmy ( monk ) allegretti .
`` i put arger on the payroll because he promised to get my firm the stevedore account at navy pier '' , stein said .
connection is sought
the federal lawyers , according to their witnesses , also were tracing stein's fees as a labor consultant .
the company supplies janitors and workmen for mccormick place and factories , liquor firms , and other businesses .
among the witnesses were ed j. lee , director of mccormick place ; ;
and frank w. pesce , operator of a glimco dominated deodorant firm , the best sanitation and supply company , 1215 blue island av. .
stein's fee , lee said , was 10 per cent of the janitors' pay .
a $12,500 payment
leavitt identified the unions as a warehouseman's local , the teamsters union , a salesman's union , the janitors' union , and a bottling workers' union .
all of the loans , in amounts up to $5,000 each , have been repaid by stein , according to leavitt .
the deodorant firm run by pesce has offices in the headquarters of glimco's discredited taxi drivers' union at 1213-15 blue island av. .
the reading , which has been watched with interest since russia's detonation of a super bomb monday , was 4 on tuesday and 7 last saturday , a level far below the danger point , according to the board of health .
a board of health spokesman said there is no reason to believe that an increase in the level here will occur as a result of the detonation .
federal prosecutors estimated that the amount may total $20,000 , altho a spokesman for the association estimated its loss at approximately $10,000 .
huff's attorney , antone f. gregorio , quoted his client as saying that part of the embezzlement represented money paid to huff , as attorney for the loan association , in satisfaction of mechanic's liens on property on which the association held mortgages .
huff , who received a salary of $109 a week from the loan association from october of 1955 until september of this year , said that his private practice was not lucrative .
charge lists 3 checks
the shortage was discovered after huff failed to report for work on sept. 18 .
there , gregorio said , huff wrote a complete statement of his offense .
all bounced .
bonn , oct. 24 ( upi )
probably the hottest thing that has hit the dallas investment community in years was the morton foods stock issue , which was sold to the public during the past week .
it was not a case of the investment bankers having to sell the stock ; ;
investors who wanted 100 shares in many cases ended up with 25 , and customers who had put in a bid to buy 400 shares found themselves with 100 and counted themselves lucky to get that many .
some dallas investment firms got only 100 shares , for all of their customers .
the stock was sold in the underwriting at a price of $12.50 a share .
and from that the stock moved right on up until it was trading thursday morning at around $22 a share .
indeed , from the moment the reports of the coming issue first started circulating in dallas last january , the inquiries and demand for the stock started building up .
there was even a cable in french from a bank in switzerland that had somehow learned about the dallas stock offering .
cable confirmation '' , it said translated .
after it allotted shares to 41 underwriters and 52 selling group members from coast to coast there were not many shares for anyone .
`` i feel confident the stock will qualify for the ' national list ' '' , he said , meaning its market price would be quoted regularly in newspapers all over the country .
but what made the morton foods stock issue such a hot one ? ?
first , the general stock market has been boiling upward for the last few months , driving stocks of all kinds up .
second , the `` potato chip industry '' has caught the fancy of investors lately , and until morton foods came along there were only two potato chip stocks -- frito and h. w. lay -- on the market .
and third , the potato chip industry has taken on the flavor of a `` growth '' industry in the public mind of late .
the potato chip industry these days is growing , not only as a result of population increase and public acceptance of convenience foods , but also because of a combination of circumstances that has led to growth by merger .
those that remain are those that were headed by strong executives , men with the abilities to last almost 30 years in the competitive survival of the fittest .
so they go looking for mergers with other firms that have publicly quoted stock , and almost daily they pound on the doors of firms like frito .
now , if morton's newest product , a corn chip known as chip-o's , turns out to sell as well as its stock did , the stock may turn out to be worth every cent of the prices that the avid buyers bid it up to .
more than 10 companies maintain facilities in dallas and one large manufacturer is located to the north at sherman .
the exhibition of cotton ginning machinery at the state fair grounds is valued at more than a million dollars .
a modern cotton gin plant costs in the neighborhood of $250,000 , and it's a safe assumption that a large percentage of new gins in the u.s. and foreign countries contain machinery made in this area .
they've occupied a 22-acre site since the early 1900's .
murray makes a complete line of ginning equipment except for driers and cleaners , and this machinery is purchased from a dallas-based firm .
the present company is a combination of several smaller ones that date back to 1834 .
factories are located here and in prattville , ala. .
the company sells a complete line of gin machinery all over the cotton-growing world .
the firm recently expanded domestic sales into the southeastern states as a result of an agreement with cen-tennial gin co. .
the company began operation in 1900 with hardware and oil mill supplies .
presently , hardwicke-etter employs 300-450 people , depending on the season of the year .
factory operations are in columbus , ga. .
the moss gordin lint cleaner co. and gordin unit system of ginning have joint headquarters here .
gordin manufacturing operations are in lubbock .
the firm is prominent in making equipment for cleaning seed cotton , driers , and heaters , and they lay claim to being the first maker ( 1910 ) of boil extraction equipment .
mitchell employs a total of about 400 people .
the hinckley gin supply co. is a maker of `` overhead equipment '' .
the firm began operations back in 1925 and sells equipment in the central cotton belt , including the mississippi delta .
they make gin saws and deal in parts , supplies and some used gin machinery .
they've been in dallas since 1921 .
they distribute equipment in 11 states .
cotton processing equipment is a sizable segment of dallas business economy .
registrations of new cars in dallas county cracked the 3,000 mark in march for the first time this year .
however , compared with march 1960 new car sales of 4,441 , this march was off 23 per cent .
this year-to-year decline for dallas county closely follows the national trend -- estimated sales of domestic cars in the u.s. for first three months of 1961 were about 1,212,000 or 80 per cent of the total in the first quarter a year earlier .
the march gain plus this optimism has been encouraging enough to prompt auto makers to boost production schedules for the next quarter .
only three standard models -- buick , chrysler , and mercury -- had slight year-to-year gains in march sales in the county .
now in its third year , the program is designed to provide a laboratory for those youngsters seeking careers in marketing and salesmanship .
more than 500 juniors and seniors are taking part in the program and 100 firms offer jobs on an educational rather than a need basis .
the 33 honored students are : mike trigg , raymond arrington , and ronald kaminsky of bryan adams , janice whitney , fil terral , and carl david page of w. h. adamson ; ;
arnold hayes , mary ann shay , and lloyd satterfield of thomas jefferson ; ;
patricia ann neal , johnny carruthers , and david mclauchlin of rylie of seagoville ; ;
william austin , gary hammond , and ronnie davis of south oak cliff ; ;
and charles potter , ronnie moore , and robert bailey of woodrow wilson .
the administration's proposals , complex and sweeping as they are , all deal with fringe areas of the housing market rather than its core , stated caron s. stallard , first vice-president of the mortgage bankers association of america .
-- `` the present recovery movement will gather steady momentum to lift the economy to a new historic peak by this autumn '' , beryl w. sprinkel , economist of harris trust & savings bank , chicago , predicted at the closing session here tuesday of investment bankers assn. , california group , conference .
he urged support for president kennedy's requests for both defense and foreign aid appropriations .
sprinkel told conferees that the recent improvement in economic activity was not a `` temporary flash in the pan '' but the beginning of a substantial cyclical expansion that will carry the economy back to full employment levels and witness a renewal of our traditional growth pattern .
thesis refuted
rather than viewing the abortive recovery in 1959-60 as a reason for believing we have lost prospects for growth '' , he said `` it should be viewed as a lesson well learned which will increase the probability of substantial improvement in this recovery '' .
he cautioned that `` the greater danger in this recovery may be excessive stimulation by government which could bring moderate inflation '' .
the unsatisfactory 1958-60 expansion , he said , was not due to inadequate growth forces inherent in our economy but rather to the adverse effect of inappropriate economic policies combined with retrenching decisions resulting from the steel strike .
draper declared , `` as i see it , this country has never faced such great dangers as threaten us today .
we must be ready for any needed sacrifice '' .
he called the cuban tractor plan an outright blackmail action , and noted that in war `` you can't buy yourself out and that's what we're trying to do '' .
its the start of a direct threat to our own security and i don't believe we can permit that '' .
-- stock market tuesday staged a technical recovery , erasing all of monday's losses in the associated press average and making the largest gain in about two weeks .
it was a level at which some of the investors standing on the sidelines were thought likely to buy the pivotal issues represented in the averages .
although it looked like a routine technical snapback to wall streeters it was accompanied by some good news .
treasury secretary douglas dillon said the economy is expected to advance by a whopping 8% next year , paving the way for lower taxes .
of 1,253 issues traded , 695 advanced and 354 declined .
trading was comparatively dull throughout the day .
a $25 billion advertising budget in an $800 billion economy was envisioned for the 1970s here tuesday by peter g. peterson , head of one of the world's greatest camera firms , in a key address before the american marketing assn. .
creations needed
`` with this kind of new product log-jam , the premium for brilliant product planning will obviously go up geometrically '' .
nothing to fear
he cited , as an example , how the american camera industry has been able to meet successfully the competition of japan despite lower japanese labor costs , by improving its production know-how and technology .
election of howard l. taylor to membership in pacific coast stock exchange , effective tuesday , has been announced by thomas p. phelan , president of the exchange .
union oil co. of california tuesday offered $120 million in debentures to the public through a group of underwriters headed by dillon , read & co. , to raise money to retire a similar amount held by gulf oil corp. .
under the new offering , only $60 million in debentures are convertible into 923,076 common shares .
the new offering tuesday consisted of $60 million worth of 4-7/8 debentures , due june 1 , 1986 , at 100% , and $60 million of 4-1/2% convertible subordinated debentures due june 1 , 1991 , at 100% .
$70 by 1971 ; ;
$80 by 1981 ; ;
new york ( ap )
volume was 1.23 million shares , down from monday's 1.58 million .
fairchild camera and kawecki chemical gained 2-1/2 each .
-- i bought 50 shares of diversified growth stock fund on oct. 23 , 1959 , and 50 more shares of the same mutual fund on feb. 8 , 1960 .
i am getting dividends on only 50 shares .
answer
that bank handles most of the paper work for diversified growth stock fund , fundamental investors , diversified investment fund and television-electronics fund .
but it seems that this `` electronic brain '' wasn't `` programmed '' correctly .
and letters began to come in to this column from irate shareholders .
at that time , the people at the bank said they felt that they had the situation in hand .
that 60-day period is over and letters are still coming in from shareholders of these four funds , complaining about mistakes in their accounts .
any shareholder of any of these funds who finds a mistake in his account certainly should get in touch with the bank .
he selects queries or general interest to answer .
-- alfred hayes , president of the federal reserve bank of new york , said tuesday `` there is no present need for far-reaching reforms '' which would basically alter the international financial system .
washington ( upi )
perlman said bankruptcy would not be an immediate effect of the merger , but could possibly be an ultimate effect .
`` all these kind of things weaken us '' , perlman said .
board chairman howard simpson of the baltimore & ohio railroad co. , testified the b & o was in its worst financial condition since the depression years and badly needed the economic lift it would get from consolidation with the chesapeake & ohio railroad .
c & o president walter j. tuohy was summoned back for cross-examination by new york central attorneys before examiner john bradford who is hearing the complex case .
central was rebuffed by the other two railroads in previous attempts to make it a three-way merger .
washington ( ap )
on $1.1 billion of 90-day bills , the average yield was 2.325% .
washington , march 11 ( upi ) .
this was the chief reason for a so-so sales outlook given by two-thirds of 56 builders polled by the national housing center .
increase expected
it disclosed that the builders :
look for home building nationally to advance less than 10 percent this year from 1960's 1,257,700 non-farm housing starts .
starts were down 20 percent from 1959 .
leaders of industry
elburn , ill.
we sold only four pickers all last year '' .
`` before then , my sales during much of the year had lagged behind 1960 by 20% '' , he says .
paradoxically , the sales rise is due in large measure to government efforts to slash farm output .
fields of corn and some other crops in many cases are so dense that older equipment cannot handle them efficiently .
seven of the eight companies that turn out full lines of farm machinery say sales by their dealers since the start of august have shown gains averaging nearly 10% above last year .
for the year to date , sales of the company's farm equipment dealers still lag about 5% behind 1960 .
among individual dealers questioned in nearly a score of states , two out of three report their sales since august 1 show sizable gains from a year earlier , with the increases ranging from 5% to 50% .
the drought-seared north central states are the most notable exceptions to the uptrend .
the demand for farm machinery is regarded as a yardstick of rural buying generally .
more than 20 million people live on farms and they own a fourth of the nation's trucks , buy more gasoline than any other industry and provide a major market for home appliances , chemicals and other products .
`` farmers aren't as price conscious as last year so we can get more money on a sale '' , says jack martin , who sells j. i. case tractors and implements in sioux city , iowa .
last year , we probably would have given him $700 for a comparable machine '' .
in august of 1960 , he sold seven .
with dealer stocks of new equipment averaging about 25% below a year ago , the affects of the rural recovery are being felt almost immediately by the country's farm equipment manufacturers .
tractor production at massey-ferguson , ltd. , of toronto in july and august rose to 2,418 units from 869 in the like period a year earlier , says john staiger , vice president .
merritt d. hill , ford motor co. vice president , says his company is starting to get calls daily from dealers demanding immediate delivery or wanting earlier shipping dates on orders for corn pickers .
the rise in sales last winter was checked when the government's new feed grain program was adopted ; ;
nearly all of the farm equipment manufacturers and dealers say the upturn in sales has resulted chiefly from the recent improvement in crop prospects .
the government also is aiding farmers' income prospects .
price support loans may total another $1 billion this year .
net income may reach $12.7 billion , up $1 billion from 1960 and the highest since 1953 .
kennedy opposes any widespread relief from a high court depletion ruling .
the company , in figuring its taxable earnings , deducted a percentage of the revenue it received for its finished products .
the high court held that the company must apply its percentage allowance to the value of the raw materials removed from the ground , not to the revenue from finished products .
the measure allows such companies in those years to apply their mineral depletion allowances to 50% of the value of the finished products rather than the lower value of raw clay alone .
`` my approval of this bill should not be viewed as establishing a precedent for the enactment of similar legislation for other mineral industries '' , the president said .
the service announced that taxpayers making such claims may be called on to furnish a statement from the recipient organization showing the date , purpose , amount and other particulars of the contribution .
in such an instance , revenuers stressed , the deduction must be reduced by the value of the benefit received .
a realty corporation in louisiana owed no tax , under federal law , on its gain from the sale of property disposed of in line with a plan of liquidation .
the corporation , in filing its final federal income return , claimed the state tax payment as a deductible expense , as permitted under u.s. tax law .
the tax court rejected this view .
the tax court decision and a similar earlier finding by the ninth circuit court of appeals challenges a year-old i.r.s. ruling on the subject .
peace corps volunteers are assured a tax benefit under the law creating the agency .
the owner of a public relations firm owed no income tax on payments he received from a client company and `` kicked back '' to the company's advertising manager , the tax court ruled .
the court upheld the taxpayer's contention that these `` kickbacks '' were not his income though they passed through his hands .
a portable kerosene range designed for use aboard boats is sold with a special railing to keep it from moving with the motion of the vessel .
hiring the wife for one's company may win her tax-aided retirement income .
she would be taxed on the pensions when received , of course , but the company's contributions would be tax-free .
in that event , they note , the revenue service might declare the pension plan is discriminatory and deny it tax privileges under the law .
state briefs : voters in four counties containing and bordering denver authorized the imposition of an additional 2% sales tax within that area .
denver itself collects a 1% sales tax which is to be absorbed in the higher area tax .
the state's occupation tax is computed on gross sales .
washington
the commerce department said seasonally adjusted sales of retail stores dropped to slightly under $18 billion in april , down 1% from the march level of more than $18.2 billion .
the seasonal adjustment takes into account such factors as easter was on april 2 this year , two weeks earlier than in 1960 , and pre-easter buying was pushed into march .
adjusted sales that month were up a relatively steep 2.5% from those of the month before , which in turn were slightly higher than the january low of $17.8 billion .
as a neiman-marcus award winner the titian-haired miss garson is a personification of the individual look so important to fashion this season .
the only woman recipient , miss garson will receive the award with ferdinando sarmi , creator of chic , beautiful women's fashions ; ;
sydney wragge , creator of sophisticated casuals for women and roger vivier , designer of christian dior shoes paris , france , whose squared toes and lowered heels have revolutionized the shoe industry .
the attractive greer garson , who loves beautiful clothes and selects them as carefully as she does her professional roles , prefers timeless classical designs .
in private life , miss garson is mrs. e. e. fogelson and on the go most of the time commuting from dallas , where they maintain an apartment , to their california home in los angeles' suburban bel-air to their ranch in pecos , new mexico .
her creations in fashion are from many designers because she doesn't want a complete wardrobe from any one designer any more than she wants `` all of her pictures by one painter '' .
she likes his classic chemise .
irene suits rate high because they are designed for her long-bodied silhouette .
balenciaga is her favorite european designer .
`` i like his clothes for their drama and simplicity and appreciate the great impact he has on fashion '' .
of scotch-irish-scandinavian descent , greer garson was born in county down , ireland .
reared in england , she studied to be a teacher , earned several scholarships and was graduated with honors from the university of london .
her acting began with the birmingham repertory company and she soon became the toast of the west end .
it was during `` old music '' at the st. james theater that hollywood's louis b. mayer spotted her .
other triumphs include `` random harvest '' , `` madame curie '' , `` pride and prejudice '' , `` the forsythe saga '' and `` mrs. miniver '' ( which won her the academy award in 1943 ) .
just this april she was nominated for the seventh time for an academy award for her portrayal of eleanor roosevelt in `` sunrise at campobello '' .
she is in madame tussard's waxworks in london , a princess of the kiowa tribe and an honorary colonel in many states .
she now serves on the board of directors of the dallas symphony orchestra and the dallas theater center and on the board of trustees of the dallas museum of fine arts .
both miss garson and her oilman-rancher husband are active supporters of boys clubs of america and patrons of the vivid art and opera colony that flourishes in new mexico .
the pretty coeds must have ogled him all day long -- but he dutifully kept his eye on the gravy .
so you can see that gerald g. ramsey , director of smu's food services , is not the ordinary type of craven , women-trodden chef .
ramsey , as smu's food wrangler , buys enough groceries to serve 32,000 meals a week .
he also dishes up 3,000 snacks .
ramsey , 6-3 , 195 and ruggedly slim , says , `` i can't remember when i didn't pester my mother to teach me to cook '' .
and you'll notice that in both places , there are acres of charming young ladies who with little effort spice up any chow line .
`` mostly meat and potatoes -- they have to have that go-go-go without getting too fat '' , says ramsey .
and to keep athletes' stomachs from getting jumpy under physical duress , he bans all highly flavored condiments .
`` pretty much hamburger , hotdogs , steak and , at night , maybe pizza '' , says the handsome food expert .
ramsey has stoked up harry truman , henry cabot lodge , the king of morocco , clement atlee and other shiny characters .
`` they aren't supposed to look at women , you know '' , ramsey recalled .
chicken cadillac
salt and pepper each breast .
place side by side in a 2-inch deep baking pan .
add enough warmed cream , seasoned to taste with onion juice , to about half cover the chicken breasts .
while this is baking , saute mushrooms , fresh or canned , in butter .
serve each breast on a thin slice of slow-baked ham and sprinkle with thompson seedless grapes .
)
that is the goal of two new collections being introduced in dallas this month .
these two , heritage and drexel , chose too not to produce the exactly matching design for every piece , but a collection of correlated designs , each of which could stand alone .
called perennian , to indicate its lasting , good today and tomorrow quality , the collection truly avoids the monotony of identical pieces .
it is a collection with a custom-design look , offering simplicity with warmth , variety and vitality .
rounded posts give a soft , sculptured look , paneled doors have decorative burl panels or cane insets plus softening arches , table tops are inlaid in macassar ebony or acacia .
an interesting approach to the bedroom is presented , with a young , basic , functional group of chests , dressers and corner units and a canted headboard .
colorful , bright eastman chromspun fabrics , with the magenta , pink and white tones predominating as well as golden shades are used with composite .
design elements closely rooted to traditional forms but wearing a definite contemporary label keynote drexel's fall 1961 group , composite .
see-through design of the chairs combines both the nostalgic ladder back and an oriental shoji flavor .
dignity and comfort , in a contemporary manner , reflecting the best aspects of today's design , with substance and maturity , keynote the perennian collection from heritage .
mellow bronzy-green-gold fabrics and the gleam of copper and hand-crafted ceramic accessories reiterate the mood as does the alexander smith carpet in all wool loop pile .
members are on their way to saledo , not by stage coach , but in air-conditioned cars .
invitations have been extended to some austin dignitaries including gov. and mrs. price daniel .
the get-together friday night will be a banquet at the country club patio and pool , and an orchestra will play for dancing .
ginghams and calico will be popular dress for the women .
decorating the ballroom will be the yellow rose of texas , in tall bushes ; ;
there will be a large drawing of a sunbonnet girl with eyes that flash at the guests .
committee members aiding them in planning the entertainment are messrs and mmes roy mckee , george mcelyee , jack fanning , w. h. roquemore and joe darrow .
their activities will be climaxed in the spring of 1962 when they go to europe .
four parties are given a year .
serving on the club's board are mmes r. p. anderson , president ; ;
w. h. roquemore , treasurer , and the following chairmen : mmes mckee , publicity ; ;
a cookie with caramel filling and chocolate frosting won $25,000 for a minneapolis housewife in the 13th annual pillsbury bake-off tuesday .
mrs. reese entered 10 past bake-offs before she got into the finals .
mother of five
she lives in wellsville , mo. .
and the third time was the charm .
the second baking was for photographing when told she was a finalist .
mr. and mrs. joseph r. bolker will give a dinner on friday at their home in beverly hills to honor mrs. norman chandler , chairman of the music center building fund committee , and mr. chandler .
a feature of the party will be a presentation by welton becket , center architect , of color slides and renderings of the three-building complex .
fall foliage and flowers will decorate los angeles country club for the annual formal party saturday evening .
among those with reservations are messrs. and mmes. william a. thompson , van cott niven , a. b. cox , david bricker , samuel perry and robert d. stetson .
guests from across u.s. honor dr. swim
a flight originating in florida picked up guests on the east coast and midwest and a plane left from seattle taking on passengers at west coast points .
he started practice in 1917 , and served on the state board of medical examiners .
a heart attack when she was barely 20 put an end to the 10-hour daily practicing .
now her modern tapestries have been exhibited on two continents and , at 26 , she feels she is on the threshold of a whole new life in los angeles .
there they continued their studies at the university , she in art , he in architecture .
there's a lot of talk about the problem of education in america today .
i never dreamed of the logistical difficulties involved until , at long last , both of my boys got squeezed into high school .
getting to and from school was no problem .
now they go to a high school that is two miles away .
they could walk , ride on a bus or be driven .
generally , they go to school with a girl named gloriana , who lives down the block , and has a car .
a young man doesn't like to be driven up in front of a school in a car driven by a girl who isn't even in a higher class than he is , and is also a girl .
i suggested .
`` did you '' ? ?
`` no '' , i said , `` i didn't happen to grow up in illinois '' .
i had to ride a streetcar two miles .
sometimes there weren't even any seats .
sometimes i got on the wrong car and didn't get to school at all , but wound up at the ocean , or some other dismal place , and had to spend the day there .
when they do that my wife has to drive me to work in the big car .
i feel a certain loss of status when i am driven up in front of work in a car driven by my wife , who is only a woman .
if they have to take any car , they'd rather take the big one .
but when gloriana rides with them they also have to take the two girls who usually ride with her , so the little car isn't big enough .
the solution , naturally , is the bus .
my wife could drive us down the hill and we could all walk from there .
nobody walks anymore but crackpots and harry truman , and he's already got an education .
published annually by william hord richardson , the 1962 edition , subtitled society register of southern california , is scheduled to arrive with monday morning's postman .
stars for marriage
last two to be added before the book went to press were the marriages of meredith jane cooper , daughter of the grant b. coopers , to robert knox worrell , and of mary alice ghormley to willard pen tudor .
joanne curry , daughter of the ellsworth currys , to james hartley gregg , and valerie smith to james mcalister duque .
cynthia flower , daughter of the ludlow flowers jr. , to todd huntington , son of the david huntingtons .
listed as newly wed in the pasadena section of the new book are mr. and mrs. samuel moody haskins 3 .
the young couple live in pasadena .
changes in address are noted .
mr. and mrs. robert moulton now live on wilshire and the franklin moultons on s. windsor blvd. .
but the raoul esnards have exchanged their residence in southern california for mexico city .
judge and mrs. julian hazard are now at laguna beach , while the frank wangemans have moved from beverly hills to new york , where he is general manager of the waldorf-astoria hotel .
others listed at new addresses are the richard t. olerichs , the joseph aderholds jr. , the henri de la chapelles , the john berteros and dr. and mrs. egerton crispin , the john armisteads , the allen chases , the howard lockies , the thomas lockies , and anthony longinotti .
the geddes macgregors , formerly of scotland , and mr. and mrs. werner h. althaus , formerly of switzerland .
most children love the animated puppet faces and their flexible bodies , and they prefer to see them as though the puppets were in action , rather than put away in boxes .
to create such a lamp , order a wired pedestal from any lamp shop .
make sure that the metal tube through which the wire passes is in the shape of an inverted `` l '' , the foot of the `` l '' about three inches long , so that the puppet can hang directly under the light .
using the strings that manipulate the puppet , suspend him from the light fixture by tying the strings to the lamp base .
if the puppets are of uniform size , you can change them in accord with your child's whims .
those illustrated are reminiscent of a circus top or a merry-go-round .
today's trend toward furniture designs from america's past is teaching home-owners and decorators a renewed respect for the shrewd cabinetmakers of our colonial era .
in the background lurked the feeling , however , that these pieces , beautiful as they were , lacked the utilitarian touch .
this isn't true of the many homemakers of the 1960's , according to decorator consultant , leland alden .
solid investment
hotel escape's bonanza room has a real bonanza in its new attraction , the versatile `` kings 4 , plus two '' .
show spotlights the kings -- george worth , bill kay , frank ciciulla and gene wilson , flanked by dave grossman and ron stevens .
in the comedy division , the kings simply augment talent and imagination with a few props .
kings 4 , have rated as a popular act in vegas and western nightclubs .
andy bartha and his trio have booked into oceania lounge .
`` flip '' phillips for a return engagement at fireside steak ranch wednesday ; ;
dick carroll and his accordion ( which we now refer to as `` freida '' ) held over at bahia cabana where `` sir '' judson smith brings in his calypso capers oct. 13 .
`` skip '' hovarter back in town from a summer in the reno-lake tahoe area where he ran into rusty warren , kay martin , the marskmen and tune toppers -- all pulling good biz , he says .
al fike , an ex-schoolteacher from colorado , is currently pursuing the three r's -- rhythm , reminiscence and repartee -- in a return class session at the trade winds hotel .
newcomers are ernie kemm on piano , wes robbins , bass and trumpet , and jack kelly on drums .
maestro's biggest stock in trade is his personality , and ability to establish a warm rapport with his audience .
this is a bouncy show which may get a little too frantic at times , but is nevertheless worth your appraisal .
cafe society opens formally this afternoon under its new ownership .
terry barnes has been named manager .
latter domain , under the guidance of chef tom yokel , will specialize in steaks , chops , chicken and prime beef as well as tom's favorite dish , stuffed shrimp .
the tic-tac-toe trio is the club's new show group which also plays for dancing .
herbert heilman in town for a day .
louise franklin cornering the gift shop market in lauderdale .
sunday new orleans brunches continue at the trade winds but the daily french buffets have been called off .
student prince lounge on atlantic blvd. plotting a month-long `` festival '' throughout october , with special features .
two were in the same band 18 years ago ; ;
steak house has such a run on beer to wash down that mexican food `` tex '' burgess had to call the draft man twice in one day .
)
pualani and randy avon , dave searles , george ( papa ) gill , al bandish , jim morgart , bob neil at the mouse trap .
bea morley , jimmy fazio , jim o'hare , ralph michaels , bill and evelyn perry at the escape .
hear that patricia murphy flies up to st. john's newfoundland , next sunday to attend the government's special ceremonies at memorial university honoring distinguished sons and daughters of the island province .
her invitation from premier joseph smallwood is reported to be the only one extended to a woman .
-- the first in a series of five productions will be held in war memorial auditorium thursday , oct. 26 .
performers include a company of 46 dancers and a symphony orchestra .
also set for appearances at the auditorium this season are : `` american ballet theatre '' on jan. 27 , `` ximenez-vargas ballet espagnol '' on feb. 2 ; ;
and `` dancers of bali '' on march 8 .
-- a southeast library workshop will be held here oct. 9 , conducted by mrs. gretchen schenk of summerdale , ala. , author , lecturer and library leader .
there is no registration fee but there will be a charge of $2.50 for the luncheon to be held in the library and fine arts building .
at the workshop , mrs. schenk will discuss `` the board and the staff , librarian-board relationships , personnel policies , how good is our librarian and staff , how good am i as a library board member and how good is our library '' .
jacksonville , oct. 6 ; ;
plant city oct. 11 .
-- a series of high school assemblies to acquaint junior and senior students with the junior achievement program begins at st. thomas aquinas monday .
the business education program operates with the cooperation of local high schools and business firms .
more than 300 teenagers last sunday proved there is and as many more are expected to prove it again for jim kern and his wife lynn from 4 to 8 p.m. sunday at first presbyterian church .
a young real estate salesman , kern first got seriously interested in the problems posed by communism when in the navy air force .
kern began reading a lot about the history and philosophy of communism , but never felt there was anything he , as an individual , could do about it .
the best approach , he figured , was to try to influence young people like the high schoolers he and his wife serve as advisors at first presbyterian church .
so the christian youth crusade against communisn developed and more than 300 top teenagers and 65 adult advisers from presbyterian churches of the area sat enthralled at the four-hour program .
a review of the philosophy of communist leaders by ted slack , another real estate agent who became interested as a philosophy major at the university of miami ; ;
the second half of the film `` communism on the map '' and the movie `` operation abolition '' also will be shown .
and to encourage other churches to try their own programs , kern said this sunday's sessions -- including the free dinner -- will be open to anyone who makes reservations .
of particular meaning to the charles macwhorter family , 3181 sw 24th ter. , will be the family dedication service planned for 10:50 a.m. sunday at first christian church .
the first one , two years ago , changed the routine of their home life .
until that first dedication service , he and lois felt their children were too young to take part in any religious life at home .
but after that service , they decided to try to let the girls say grace at the table , have bedtime prayers , and bible stories .
even the two-year-old feels miffed if the family has a prayer-time without her .
mr. and mrs. george treadwell will be honored at a family week supper and program at 6 p.m. sunday at trinity methodist church .
a family worship service will follow the program at 7:45 p.m. .
every family of riviera presbyterian church has been asked to read the bible and pray together daily during national christian family week and to undertake one project in which all members of the family participate .
new officers of the church will be ordained and installed at the 7:30 p.m. service .
the week will end with the rev. mr. henderson preaching on `` the marriage altar '' at 7:30 p.m. sunday , may 14 .
enrique jorda , conductor and musical director of the san francisco symphony , will fulfill two more guest conducting engagements in europe before returning home to open the symphony's golden anniversary season , it was announced .
the season in san francisco will open with a special gala concert on november 22 .
in announcing jorda's return , the orchestra also announced that the sale of single tickets for the 50th anniversary season will start at the sherman clay box office on wednesday .
pianists leon fleisher , ruth slenczynka and stephen bishop and conductor earl bernard murray .
this work is no favorite of mine .
that its persistent use by ballet companies of the soviet regime indicates that that old spirit is just as stultifying alive today as it ever was ; ;
that its choreography is undistinguished and its score a shapeless assemblage of self-plagiarisms .
precise
in other words , no merely male creature can resist that corps de ballet .
these qualities alone , however , would not account for their success , and it took me a while to discover the crowning virtue that completes this company's collective personality .
oh-the-pain-of-it , that convention of russian ballet whereby the girls convey the idea that they are all the daughters of impoverished grand dukes driven to the stage out of filial piety , is totally absent from the kirov .
but , obviously , at least some things have changed for the better in russia so far as the ballet is concerned .
she is the most beautiful thing you ever laid eyes on , and her dancing has a feminine suavity , lightness , sparkle , and refinement which are simply incomparable .
alla sizova , who seems to have made a special hit in the east , was delightful as the lady bluebird and her partner , yuri soloviev , was wonderfully virile , acrobatic , and poetic all at the same time , in a tradition not unlike that of nijinsky .
konstantin shatilov , a great character dancer ; ;
the production , designed by simon virsaladze , was completely traditional but traditional in the right way .
evegeni dubovskoi conducted an exceptionally large orchestra , one containing excellent soloists -- the violin solos by the concertmaster , guy lumia , were especially fine -- but one in which the core of traveling players and the body of men added locally had not had time to achieve much unity .
the season will open at the new hall of flowers in golden gate park on november 20 at 8:30 p.m. with a concert by the mills chamber players .
annual members may attend for $16 .
mail orders for the season and orders for single tickets at $2 , may be addressed to the society , 1044 chestnut street , san francisco 9 .
fire fighters local 798 , which is sponsoring the toy program for the 12th straight year , issued a call for san franciscans to turn in discarded toys , which will be repaired by off-duty firemen .
they will be accepted at all branches of the bay view federal savings and loan association , at a collection center in the center of the stonestown mall , and at the junior museum , 16th street and roosevelt way .
any needy family living in san francisco can obtain toys by writing to christmas toys , 676 howard street , san francisco 5 , and listing the parent's name and address and the age and sex of each child in the family between the ages of 1 and 12 .
famed cellist pablo casals took his instrument to the east room of the white house yesterday and charmed the staff with a two-hour rehearsal .
president kennedy's invitation to the spanish-born master said , `` we feel your performance as one of the world's greatest artists would lend distinction to the entertainment of our guests '' .
after all , this year's movies are next year's television shows .
it has been billed as a towering monument to immorality .
if that's all the romans did , it's a surprise to me that rome fell .
i cannot imagine a single scene that isn't done in a far naughtier manner on tv every week .
`` la dolce vita '' has none of the senseless brutality or sadism of the average tv western .
there is more decadence on `` 77 sunset strip '' .
in another respect , television viewers will feel right at home because most of the actors are unknowns .
most of the emphasis has been placed on a `` wild party '' at a seaside villa .
the dolce vita get-together boasted a strip tease ( carried as far as a black slip ) ; ;
a frigid beauty , and three silly fairies .
apparently fellini caught the crowd when its parties had begun to pall .
as a moral shocker it is a dud .
the chronicle's paine knickerbocker summed it up neatly :
and when they sell it to television in a couple of years , it can be shown without editing .
among the subjects discussed will be russian restrictions on poets and writers in the ussr ( channel 9 at 9:30 ) .
nbc plans a new series of three long programs exploring america's scientific plans titled `` threshold '' , to start in the fall .
and you think you have language problems .
i bought a new little foreign bomb .
very austere yet racy .
with a foreign car you must wear a cap -- it has a leather band in the back .
the wardrobe for a foreign bomb is a little expensive .
`` where do you put the lighter fluid , ha , ha '' ? ?
the present crop of small cars is enriching american humor .
when i drove a car with tail fins , i had plenty status at the wind-and-water oases .
this excellent foreign bomb takes only six .
`` tires ok ? ?
''
they had a loving touch .
`` what kind of car is it '' ? ?
`` it is a british austin , the smallest they make '' .
`` about 35 '' .
`` what i always say is what if somebody clobbers you in a little car like that ? ?
`` i will die rich '' .
`` the windshield looks pretty clean '' .
when i wheeled about , finned fore and aft , i was the darling of the doormen .
with a small bomb , i tuck it between cadillacs .
high blood pressure can get the best of any of us .
at last the white house is going to get some much-copied furniture by that master american craftsman , duncan phyfe , whose designs were snubbed in his lifetime when the u. s. presidents of the 19th century sent abroad for their furnishings .
the suite has been in the same family since the early 1800's .
authenticated pieces of duncan phyfe furniture are uncommon , although millions of american homes today display pieces patterned after the style trends he set 150 years ago .
the aid has undertaken the redecoration of the white house library as a project in connection with the work being done by first lady jacqueline kennedy's fine arts advisory committee to secure antiques for the presidential home .
the room will also feature another rarity many antiquarians would consider more important than the duncan phyfe furniture .
the mantel was found in a recently demolished salem house and is being fitted over the white house library fireplace .
the aid committee's chairman in charge of the redecoration , mrs. henry francis lenygon , was in town yesterday to consult with white house staff members on the project .
regional representatives appointed to serve from each section of the country include frank e. barnes of boston .
but he left the doors to his office open so he could hear the music .
it was the first in the series of `` concerts for young people by young people '' to be sponsored by first lady jacqueline kennedy at the white house .
she is vacationing at the kennedy summer home in hyannis port , mass. , and in his welcoming remarks , the president said he was representing her .
`` i think they played hail to the chief better than the marine corps band , and we are grateful to them '' , president kennedy remarked after mounting the bandstand and shaking hands with conductor james christian pfohl .
he added `` i think that sometimes in this country we are not aware as we should be of the extraordinary work that is being done in this field '' .
`` this is a great national cultural asset , and therefore it is a great source of satisfaction to me , representing as i do today my wife , to welcome all of you here today at the white house '' .
he expressed surprise to learn that pretty , blonde patricia holbrook , 16 , of mount rainier , had attended the joseph p. kennedy school for the handicapped in boston .
patricia now attends the c. melvin sharpe health school in the district .
they enjoyed lemonade and cookies served before and during the concert by teenage sons and daughters of members of the white house staff .
and it turned out to be more of a family affair than expected .
transylvania symphony conductor pfohl said yesterday that mrs. kennedy's social secretary , letitia baldrige , told about plans for white house youth concerts before the national symphony orchestra league in philadelphia last spring .
a flow of correspondence between pfohl and miss baldrige resulted in an invitation to the 85-student north carolina group to play the first concert .
`` i was an art major in college '' , miss baldrige explained .
she turned out to be a fan , too , of margaret bouton , the gallery's associate curator of education .
the brevard group of 85 arrived at the gallery at 6 p.m. , remaining for about 45 minutes .
they decided that they thought rembrandt's self-portrait made him look `` sad '' ; ;
everybody had heard of van gogh , the french impressionist .
he pointed out to the young musicians that the national gallery `` is the only museum in the country to have a full-time music director , richard bales .
along with the gallery aide who explained the various paintings and sculptures to each group , went one of the gallery's blue-uniformed guards .
a few of them said they `` preferred contemporary art '' .
the thing that impressed one of the visitors the most was the gallery's rotunda fountain `` because it's on the second floor '' .
more than 250 scottish rite masons and guests gathered in their house of the temple to pay tribute to their most prominent leader , albert pike , who headed the scottish rite from 1859 to 1891 .
c. wheeler barnes of denver , head of the scottish rite in colorado , praised pike as a historian , author , poet , journalist , lawyer , jurist , soldier and musician , who devoted most of his mature years to the strengthening of the masonic order .
a reception and tea followed .
the opening session of the 5-day session will begin at 10 a.m. today .
a wreath will be placed at the tomb of george washington , one of this nation's first masons -- a past master of washington-alexandria lodge 22 in alexandria .
john had a job in a small firm where the work was dull and monotonous .
hurt by his lack of interest and attention , mary complained often that he didn't help around the house , and that he didn't really care about the family .
he in turn told her she demanded too much .
mary decided she had had enough .
the judge listened quietly as the young woman poured out her frustrations -- then discussing with her the possibility of seeking aid from family service before going to a lawyer .
they offer to the people of this community case work service and counseling on a wide variety of family problems .
for nearly a year , they have been receiving counseling , separately and together , in an effort to understand and overcome the antagonisms which had given rise to the possibility of divorce .
they are now working together toward solving their difficulties .
he gives credit for the promotion to his new outlook on life .
to outsiders , the blacks seem to be an ordinary , happy family , and they are -- but with a difference .
family service has helped hundreds of families in this area .
but to the families it serves , their help cannot be measured .
anticipated heavy traffic along the skyline drive failed to materialize yesterday , park rangers said , and those who made the trip got a leisurely view of the fall colors through skies swept clear of haze .
one of the initial questions put to president kennedy at his first news conference last january was about his attitude toward a meeting with premier khrushchev .
`` i'm hopeful that from more traditional exchanges we can perhaps find greater common ground '' .
but he was convinced that the realities of power -- military , economic and ideological -- were the decisive factors in the struggle with the communists and that these could not be talked away at a heads of government meeting .
last friday the white house announced :
the announcement came after a period of sharp deterioration in east-west relations .
he was not going to vienna to negotiate -- the simultaneous announcements in washington and moscow last week stressed that no formal negotiations were planned .
that objective set the high stakes and drama of the vienna meeting .
road to vienna
the first time was in 1955 when a full-dress big four summit meeting produced the `` spirit of geneva '' .
in 1959 president eisenhower and premier khrushchev held an informal session in the u. s. .
on the third occasion -- another big four summit session at paris a year ago -- there was no problem of an illusory `` spirit '' .
the episode tended to confirm the u. s. belief that propaganda , the hope of one-sided concessions , and the chance to split the allies , rather than genuine negotiation , were the soviet leader's real aims in summitry .
thus when premier khrushchev intimated even before inauguration that he hoped for an early meeting with the new president , mr. kennedy was confronted with a delicate problem .
`` as long as mr. khrushchev is convinced that the balance of world power is shifting his way , no amount of either smiles or toughness , neither camp david talks nor kitchen debates , can compel him to enter fruitful negotiations '' .
he did not want the effort weakened by any illusion that summit magic might make it unnecessary .
above all , he did not want to appear to be running hat in hand to premier khrushchev's doorstep .
at the same time the president took pains not to rule out an eventual meeting with the soviet leader .
but mr. kennedy saw value even in an informal meeting , provided that undue hopes were not raised in connection with it .
moreover , an eventual meeting was desirable if for no other reason than to satisfy world opinion that the u. s. was not inflexible and was sparing no effort to ease international tensions .
the letter , dated feb. 22 , was delivered to premier khrushchev in novosibirsk , siberia , on march 9 .
but it also briefly suggested the possibility of a meeting with mr. khrushchev before the end of the year if the international climate were favorable and schedules permitted .
there were intense discussions in the inner councils of the white house about the advisability of an early meeting , not because the international climate was improving , but precisely because it was deteriorating alarmingly .
the president was especially concerned about the deadlock in the nuclear test ban negotiations at geneva .
in the u. s. , strong pressures have been building up for a resumption of tests on grounds that the russians may be secretly testing .
there was reason to believe that premier khrushchev was also concerned about a possible spread of nuclear weapons , particularly to communist china .
moreover , moscow appeared determined to apply the tripartite veto principle to the executive organs of all international bodies , including the u. n. secretariat and the international control commission for laos .
developments in cuba and laos also suggested the advisability of an early summit meeting .
at the same time , there was increased reason for a quick meeting lest the soviet leader , as a result of those episodes , come to a dangerously erroneous conclusion about the west's ability and determination to resist communist pressure .
in laos , the picture was almost equally bad .
beyond that , allied disagreement about military intervention in laos -- despite warnings that they might do so -- allowed moscow to carry out with impunity a series of military and diplomatic moves that greatly strengthened the pro-communist forces .
in the light of those events , there appeared to be a real danger that premier khrushchev might overreach himself .
he has indicated that he plans new moves on berlin before the year is out .
it was in the midst of such white house deliberations that premier khrushchev on may 4 made new inquiries through the u. s. embassy in moscow about a meeting with the president in the near future .
the response from london , paris and bonn was favorable .
apparently at the insistence of the u. s. , the simultaneous announcements issued in washington and moscow last friday emphasized the `` informal '' nature of the meeting .
`` the president and chairman khrushchev understand that this meeting is not for the purpose of negotiating or reaching agreement on the major international problems that involve the interest of many other countries .
the outlook
the announcement last week of the forthcoming encounter produced strong reactions in the u. s. of both approval and disapproval .
the inclination was to accept the statement that there would be no formal negotiations .
mr. khrushchev is known to rely heavily on his instincts about his adversaries and to be a shrewd judge of men .
apart from the personal equation , another reason advanced in favor of the meeting was that too often in the past the u.s. appeared to have been dragged reluctantly to the summit .
this time the initiative came , in part at least , from washington .
there was also the fact that by the time he meets mr. khrushchev , the president will have completed conversations with all the other principal allied leaders .
finally , there was a wide area of agreement on the value of the president's making a final effort in the summit spotlight for a nuclear test accord .
if tests are to be resumed , the argument went , it is vital that the u. s. make plain that the onus belongs to the soviet union .
after cuba and laos , it was argued , mr. khrushchev will interpret the president's consent to the meeting as further evidence of western weakness -- perhaps even panic -- and is certain to try to exploit the advantage he now believes he holds .
the question was raised , for example , as to what attitude the president would take if mr. khrushchev proposes a broad neutral belt extending from southeast asia to the middle east .
mollusks are a case in point .
though this may or may not be good biology , it does aptly illustrate the strength and the weakness of american catholic higher education .
the deeper wonder is how this miracle was accomplished in decades , rather than in centuries and by immigrant minorities at that .
there is , however , one curious discrepancy in this broad and flattering picture .
but the simple truth is that higher education has never really been an official american catholic project ; ;
official encouragement is one thing , but the down-to-earth test is the allocation of diocesan and parochial funds .
they have not done so for the simple reason that such appeals have hardly ever been made .
all of this may be understandable enough : it is , however , in fact difficult to see how diocesan authorities could have acted otherwise .
community esprit de corps has been the protective shell which has made the achievement possible .
it is something more than the arithmetical sum of individual totals of piety and detachment .
the fact that the group orientation and group identification are founded on supernatural principles and nourished by the well-springs of devotion simply give them a deeper and more satisfying dimension .
american catholic colleges and universities are , in a very real sense , the product of `` private enterprise '' -- the `` private enterprise '' of religious communities .
there is however no point in speculating about such a possibility : the fact of the matter is that our institutions of higher learning owe their existence to a spirit not unlike that which produces the `` family business '' .
it is this spirit which explains some of the anomalies of american catholic higher education , in particular the wasteful duplication apparent in some areas .
this is not an isolated example ; ;
it would seem to represent esprit de corps run riot .
for while the past needs of the church in this country may have been adequately met by collegiate institutions , which in temper and tone closely resembled junior colleges and finishing schools , it would seem that today's need is for the college which more closely resembles the university in its `` pursuit of excellence '' .
but with today's demand for professional qualifications and specialized training , the need for `` outsiders '' becomes more pressing .
commenting on the earlier stage , the notre dame chapter of the american association of university professors ( in a recent report on the question of faculty participation in administrative decision-making ) noted that the term `` teacher-employee '' ( as opposed to , e.g. , `` maintenance employee '' ) was a not inapt description .
and while no one expects total democracy on the academic scene , the scholar will be particularly sensitive to a line between first and second class citizenship drawn on any basis other than that of academic rank or professional achievement .
it is natural that he should turn for his major support to a select and dedicated few from the organization which actually owns the university and whose goals are , in their opinion , identified with its highest good and ( to use that oft-repeated phrase ) ' the attainment of excellence ' '' .
it is particularly interesting that those who framed the report should refer to `` the organization which actually owns the university '' : this seems to show an awareness of the fact that there is more to the problem than the ordinary issue of clerical-lay tension .
`` outside '' faculty members want to be considered partners in the academic enterprise and not merely paid employees of a family business .
in the first place there is the obvious problem of recruiting high caliber personnel .
expressions of even low-key dissatisfaction by a catholic college faculty member has the effect of confirming the already existing stereotype .
to appreciate the nature of the gamble , it should be realized that while college teaching is almost a public symbol of security , that security does not come as quickly or as automatically as it does in an elementary school system or in the civil service .
this is a significant advance but its import should not be exaggerated .
a man does not make that kind of gamble if he suspects that one or more of the limited number of tenure positions is being reserved for members of the `` family '' .
adequate compensation is indispensable .
broadly speaking the total catholic atmosphere is such an intangible but the larger demand is for a sense of creative participation and mature responsibility in the total work of the university .
there is no need here to spell out the conditions of creative teaching except to point out that , at the college level , the sense of community and of community responsibility is even more necessary than it is at other levels .
but this in turn means that decisions are not merely imposed from the top but that there be some actual mechanism of faculty participation .
this is a problem that goes considerably beyond questions of salary and tenure .
the first is a negative warning : there is no point in the creation of faculty committees and advisory boards with high-sounding titles but no real authority .
competent teachers are well versed in the technique of leading students to pre-set conclusions without destroying the students' illusion that they are making their own decisions .
in any case it is by no means clear that formally structured organs of participation are what is called for at all .
in itself there is nothing wrong with this form of `` participation '' : the only difficulty on the catholic campus is that those faculty members who are in a position to implement policy , i.e. , members of the religious community which owns and administers the institution , have their own eating arrangements .
once more the fallacious equation is advanced to argue that since business is restricted under the anti-monopoly laws , there must be a corresponding restriction against labor unions : the law must treat everybody equally .
the public atmosphere that has been generated which makes acceptance of this law a possibility stems from the disrepute into which the labor movement has fallen as a result of mr. mcclellan's hearings into corruption in labor-management relations and , later , into the jurisdictional squabbles that plagued industrial relations at the missile sites .
in addition , disclosures that missile workers were earning sums far in excess of what is paid for equivalent work elsewhere provoked his indignation on behalf of the american taxpayer who was footing the bill .
business week ( aug. 9 , 1961 ) reports that the united aircraft company , against which the international association of machinists had undertaken a strike , decided to keep its plants operating .
the company has billed the united states government for $7,500,000 of these expenses under the defense department regulation allowing costs of a type generally recognized as ordinary and necessary for the conduct of the contractor's business .
the committee remains unresponsive .
they are preoccupied with ending labor abuses by extending the anti-monopoly laws to the unions .
the anti-trust laws inform a business that it must compete , but along completely undefined lines ; ;
the fact is that any business that wants to operate successfully cannot follow the law .
let us look at the heavy-electrical-goods industry in which general electric , westinghouse and a number of other manufacturers were recently convicted of engaging in a conspiracy to rig prices and allocate the market .
the problem becomes even more complex where an enterprise is engaged in the manufacture of a wide variety of other goods in addition to the heavy electrical equipment .
naturally , enterprises of the size of general electric are in a position to structure their prices in such a way that the relatively small competitors can be forced to the wall in a very short time .
uncle sam would then accuse them of creating a monopoly by `` unfair competition '' .
under the circumstances , the only protection for the relatively small manufacturers is to engage in exactly the kind of conspiracy with the giants for which the latter were convicted .
the paradox implicit in the whole affair is shown by the demand of the government , after the conviction , that general electric sign a wide-open consent decree that it would not reduce prices so low as to compete seriously with its fellows .
and which theory would govern the enforcers of the law on sunday ? ?
why did they engage in a flood of mea culpas , throw a few scapegoats to the dogs and promise to be good boys thereafter , expressing their complete confidence in the laws '' ? ?
he wrote : `` ( p. 211 ) the anti-trust laws were the answer of a society which unconsciously felt the need of great organizations , and at the same time had to deny them a place in the moral and logical ideology of the social structure .
( p. 215 ) when corporate abuses were attacked , it was done on the theory that criminal penalties would be invoked rather than control .
( pp. 228-229 ) in any event , it is obvious that the anti-trust laws did not prevent the formation of some of the greatest financial empires the world has ever known , held together by some of the most fantastic ideas , all based on the fundamental notion that a corporation is an individual who can trade and exchange goods without control by the government '' .
a plea of nolo contendere , followed by a nominal fine , after all is a small price to pay for this untrammeled license .
)
a secret conspiracy of manufacturers is hardly such a vehicle .
quite clearly the anti-trust laws are neither effective nor rational -- and yet the argument goes that they should be extended to the labor union .
before 1933 , individuals who opposed trade unions and collective bargaining said so in plain english .
the wagner act , the taft-hartley act and the landrum-griffin act all endorse the principle of collective bargaining .
if a union cannot perform this function , then collective bargaining is being palmed off by organizers as a gigantic fraud .
the problem must be faced squarely .
human labor was exactly that -- a commodity -- in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century america .
but many against combining to raise it '' .
in 1825 , the boston house carpenters' strike for a ten-hour day was denounced by the organized employers , who declared : `` it is considered that all combinations by any classes of citizens intended to effect the value of labor tend to convert all its branches into monopolies '' .
the courts shared the opinion of the employers .
`` without any officious and improper interference on the subject , the price of labor or the wages of mechanics will be regulated by the demand for the manufactured article and the value of that which is paid for it ; ;
compare this statement of a nineteenth-century judge with how congressman martin , according to the daily labor report of sept. 19 , 1961 , defends the necessity of enacting anti-trust legislation in the field of labor `` if we wish to prevent monopolistic fixing of wages , production or prices and if we wish to preserve the freedom of the employer and his employees to contract on wages , hours and conditions of employment '' .
his bill , allegedly aimed at hoffa , would amend the sherman , clayton and norris-laguardia acts to authorize the issuance of federal injunctions in any transportation strike and would make it illegal for any union to act in concert with any other union -- even a sister local in the same international .
indeed , it is in the field of transportation that congress has most frequently granted employers exemption from the anti-trust laws ; ;
at the very moment that every attempt is being made to take management out from under the irrationality of anti-trust legislation , a drive is on to abolish collective bargaining under the guise of extending the anti-monopoly laws to unions who want no more than to continue to set wages in the same way that ship operators set freight rates .
it was most effective against trade unions .
the suit against the union was successful and many workers lost their homes to pay off the judgment .
the law could not suspend economics .
the courts , by interpretation , emasculated the act .
the company sued under the anti-trust laws , alleging that the union's activity interfered with the movement of interstate commerce .
) the court first ruled that the strike constituted only an indirect interference with commerce .
the three-front war
afterward , tennessee's democratic senator albert gore summed it up for newsmen .
that was something of an understatement in a week when the underlying conflict between the west and communism erupted on three fronts .
1 ) cuba .
president eisenhower held an 8:30 a.m. meeting with top military and foreign-policy advisers , decided to break off diplomatic relations immediately .
`` that limit has now been reached '' .
kennedy , through secretary-designate of state dean rusk , declined .
2 ) laos .
`` in view of the present situation in laos '' , said the pentagon's announcement , `` we are taking normal precautionary actions to increase the readiness of our forces in the pacific '' .
on the u.s.'s island base of okinawa , task force 116 , made up of army , navy , marine and air force units , got braced to move southward on signal .
french & indians .
political , economic and military experts were all agreed that chaotic , mountainous little laos was the last place in the world to fight a war -- and they were probably right .
but why was laos the new southeast asian battleground ? ?
the late secretary of state john foster dulles considered the 1954 geneva agreement a specimen of appeasement , saw that resolution would be needed to keep it from becoming a calamity for the west .
`` the important thing from now on '' , he said , `` is not to mourn the past but to seize the future opportunity to prevent the loss in northern viet nam from leading to the extension of communism throughout southeast asia '' .
soviet premier khrushchev sent new year's hopes for peace to president-elect kennedy , and got a cool acknowledgment in reply .
but , in senator gore's words , it was `` not a very encouraging '' situation that would confront john f. kennedy on inauguration day .
turmoil in the house
the liberal pressure bloc ( which coyly masquerades under the name democratic study group ) had fought the committee before , and had always lost .
they had the unspoken support of president-elect kennedy , whose own legislative program was menaced by the rules committee bottleneck .
deadly deadlock .
caucusing , the liberals decided to go after colmer , which actually was the more drastic course , since seniority in the house is next to godliness .
he is generally and initially suspicious of any federal project , unless it happens to benefit his gulf coast constituents .
for 20 years he has enjoyed his power on the rules committee .
equal treatment .
reprisals are not unheard of in such situations , but the recent tendency has been for the congress to forgive its prodigal sons .
( in the heat of the anti-colmer drive last week , judge smith threatened reprisal against powell .
) but speaker sam rayburn , after huddling in palm beach with president-elect kennedy , decided that this year something had to be done about the rules committee -- and that he was the only man who could do anything effective .
smith flatly rejected the offer , and mister sam thereupon decided to join the rebels .
news of rayburn's commitment soon leaked out .
`` unconscionable '' ! !
cannon , a powerful , conservative man , brought welcome support to the smith-colmer forces : as chairman of the appropriations committee , he holds over each member the dreadful threat of excluding this or that congressional district from federal pork-barrel projects .
threat of war .
his highest count of supporters numbered 72 -- and he needed nearly twice that number to control the 260-member democratic caucus .
( one big question : if colmer was to be purged , what should the house do about the other three senior mississippians who supported the maverick electors ? ?
but in the prospect of winning the battle loomed the specter of losing a costlier war .
with that possibility in mind , arkansas' wilbur mills deliberately delayed calling a meeting of the committee on committees , and coolheaded democrats sought to bring rayburn and smith together again to work out some sort of face-saving compromise .
`` one wants a little more power , and the other doesn't want to give up any '' .
the senate launched the 87th congress with its own version of an ancient liberal-conservative battle , but in contrast with the house's guerrilla war it seemed as pro forma as a capitol guide's speech .
a wide-ranging , bipartisan force -- from minnesota's democratic hubert humphrey to massachusetts' republican leverett saltonstall -- was drawn up against a solid phalanx of southern democrats , who have traditionally used the filibuster to stop civil rights bills .
fair dealer humphrey upped the ante , asked cloture power for a mere majority of senators .
privately , the liberals admitted that the humphrey amendment had no chance of passage .
in 1957 nixon delivered a significant opinion that a majority of senators had the power to adopt new rules at the beginning of each new congress , and that any rules laid down by previous congresses were not binding .
hopefully , the perennial battle of rule 22 then would be fought to a settlement once and for all .
last act
but with the convening of the new congress , he was the public man again , presiding over the senate until john kennedy's inauguration .
nixon fulfilled his assignment with grace , then went beyond the required `` sufficient declaration '' .
the masters golf tournament proved last monday what it can do to the strongest men and the staunchest nerves .
arnold palmer , the defending champion , lost his title on the 72nd hole after a few minutes of misfortune that left even his fellow pros gaping in disbelief .
and that is just what happened on the last few holes .
player was the first to feel its teeth .
he bogeyed the 10th .
he bogeyed the 15th by missing a short putt and finally scrambled through the last three holes without further mishap for a 2-over-par 74 and a 72-hole total of 280 .
he could read on the nearby scoreboard that palmer , by then playing the 15th hole , was leading him by a stroke .
now all he had to do was finish in even par to collect the trophy and the biggest single paycheck in golf .
but the seven-iron shot he used to approach the green strayed into a bunker and lodged in a slight depression .
afterwards , palmer told charlie coe , his last-round partner , that he simply played the hole too fast .
when the shaken palmer finally did hit his fourth shot , he overshot the hole by 15 feet .
palmer's 281 for the four rounds at augusta was a comfortable four strokes ahead of the next closest pro , but it was barely good enough for a second-place tie with coe .
end at seven
as evening approached and palmer finished his saturday round with a disappointing one-over-par 73 , this remarkable record was still intact , thanks to his thursday and friday rounds of 68 and 69 .
but palmer knew , as did everybody else at augusta , that his streak was about to be broken .
more than a streak had ended .
unlike most such sports rivalries , it appeared to have developed almost spontaneously , although this was not exactly the case .
as if to confirm his stature , he quickly won three of the first eight tournaments .
but as the tour reached pensacola a month ago , player was leading palmer in official winnings by a few hundred dollars , and the rest of the field was somewhere off in nowhere .
on that final sunday at pensacola neither palmer nor player was leading the tournament and , as it turned out , neither won it .
player immediately proved he was not in the least awed by the dramatic proximity of palmer .
thereafter , until the masters , player gradually increased his lead over palmer in winnings and added one more tournament victory at miami .
instant rivalry
it was a dismal , drizzly day but a good one on which to score over the augusta national course .
palmer's 4-under-par 68 got him off to an early lead , which he shared with bob rosburg .
even so , it was still not clear to many in the enormous horde of spectators -- unquestionably the largest golf crowd ever -- that this tournament was to be , essentially , a match between palmer and player .
or ken venturi , who had a somewhat shaky 72 but was bound to do better ; ;
or even old byron nelson , whose excellent 71 made one wonder if he had solved the geriatric aspects of golf .
)
rosburg had started early in the day , and by the time palmer and player were on the course -- separated , as they were destined to be for the rest of the weekend , by about half an hour -- they could see on the numerous scoreboards spotted around the course that rosburg , who ended with a 73 , was not having a good day .
player began with a birdie on the first hole , added five straight pars and then another birdie at the 9th .
he birdied the 13th , the 15th and the 18th -- five birdies , one bogey and 12 pars for a 68 .
the roar of palmer's gallery as he sank a thrilling putt would roll out across the parklike landscape of augusta , only to be answered moments later by the roar of player's gallery for a similar triumph .
without so much as a grimace or a gesture to show that he had noticed ( although he later admitted that he had ) palmer proceeded to sink his 25-footer , and his gallery sent its explosive vocalization rolling back along the intervening fairways in reply .
anyone who now doubted that a personal duel was under way had only to watch how these exceptionally gifted golfers were playing this most difficult golf course .
the bad luck that can so often mar a well-played round of golf is simply overpowered and obliterated by the contemptuous boldness of these champions .
byron nelson did , hogan did .
as the third round of the tournament began on saturday and the duel was resumed in earnest , it was player's superior aggressiveness that carried him into the lead .
as player stepped on the first tee he knew that palmer had birdied the first two holes and already was 2 under par for the day .
in fact , he went on to birdie the 6th and 8th as well , to go 4 under par for the first eight holes .
he hit a poor tee shot , pulling it off into the pine woods separating the 9th and first fairways .
player then had the choice of punching the ball safely out of the woods to the 9th fairway and settling for a bogey 5 , or gambling .
`` i was hitting the ball well '' , player said later , `` and i felt strong .
player attacked with his four-wood and hit a shot that few who saw it will ever forget .
from there he chipped back and sank his putt for a par 4 .
they started on the 4th hole , a 220-yard par-3 .
at the 4th tee palmer chose to hit a one-iron when a three-wood was the proper club , so he put the ball in a bunker in front of the green .
starting the second nine , palmer was already four strokes behind player and knew it .
when roger eugene maris , mantle's muscular teammate , powers four home runs in a double-header , his performance merits awe .
this is baseball 1961 .
it is the year when ( 1 ) amiable jim gentile of the baltimore orioles ambled to the plate in consecutive innings with the bases loaded and , in unprecedented style , delivered consecutive grand-slam home runs ; ;
( 3 ) the milwaukee braves tied a major-league record with fourteen home runs in three games and lost two of them ; ;
pitchers grumble about lively balls and lively bats , the shrinking strike zone , and the fact that the knock-down pitch is now illegal .
whatever the reasons , not in 30 years has a single season produced such thunderous assaults upon the bureau of baseball records , home-run division .
this , of course , is baseball's most remarkable mark : the 60 home runs hit in 1927 by the incorrigible epicure , the incredible athlete , george herman ( babe ) ruth of the yankees .
what ultimately frustrated every challenger was ruth's amazing september surge .
double threat :
but now , for the first time since lou gehrig ( with 47 home runs ) spurred ruth on in 1927 , two men playing for the same team have zeroed in on 60 .
after 108 games in 1927 , ruth had 35 home runs .
extend mantle's and maris's present paces over the full 1961 schedule of 162 games , and , mathematically , each will hit more than 60 home runs .
to better ruth's mark , neither needs a spectacular september flourish .
in ruth's day -- and until this year -- the schedule was 154 games .
)
`` it has to be easier with two of them .
roommates :
although both concede they would like to hit 60 , they stick primarily to the baseball player's standard quote : `` the important thing is to win the pennant '' .
each enjoys seeing the other hit home runs ( `` i hope roger hits 80 '' , mantle says ) , and each enjoys even more seeing himself hit home runs ( `` and i hope i hit 81 '' ) .
mantle , maris , and bob cerv , a utility outfielder , share an apartment in jamaica , long island , not far from new york international airport .
mantle and cerv use the twin beds in the bedroom ; ;
they divide up the household chores : cerv does most of the cooking ( breakfast and sandwich snacks , with dinner out ) , mantle supplies the transportation ( a white 1961 oldsmobile convertible ) , and maris drives the 25-minute course from the apartment house to yankee stadium .
as roommates , teammates , and home-run mates , mantle , 29 , who broke in with the yankees ten years ago , and maris , 26 , who came to the yankees from kansas city two years ago , have strikingly similar backgrounds .
as halfbacks , both came close to playing football at the university of oklahoma ( `` sometimes in the minors '' , maris recalls , `` i wished i had gone to oklahoma '' ) .
both have blue eyes and short blond hair .
with their huge backs and overdeveloped shoulders , both must have their clothes made to order .
mantle , more concerned with dress , buys his suits four at a time at neiman-marcus in dallas and pays as much as $250 each .
neither mantle nor maris need fear being classified an intellectual , but lately mantle has shown unusual devotion to an intellectual opus , henry miller's `` tropic of cancer '' .
mantle is not normally given to public speaking -- or , for that matter , to private speaking .
a reporter asked maris recently .
this is no surprising trait for a ballplayer .
of the two , mantle is by nature the less outgoing , maris the more outspoken .
`` see that kid '' ? ?
`` that's ( yogi ) berra's .
i came back , sitting by my locker , feeling real low , and the kid walks over to me , looks up , and says : ' you stunk ' '' .
`` when i've made a dumb play '' , he says , `` i don't want to talk to anyone .
by his own confession , maris is an angry young man .
send me where i can play '' .
) benched at indianapolis in 1956 , he told manager kerby farrell : `` i'm not learning anything on the bench .
( farrell did -- and maris led the team to victory in the little world series .
`` i tell people what i think .
give me a team of nine angry men and i'll give you a team of nine gentlemen and we'll beat you nine out of ten times '' .
one good indication of the two men's personalities is the way they reacted to meeting their own heroes .
`` when i was a kid '' , maris told a sportswriter last week , `` i used to follow williams every day in the box score , just to see whether he got a hit or not '' .
`` are you kidding '' ? ?
`` you're afraid to talk to a guy you idolize '' .
`` when mickey went to the yankees '' , says mark freeman , an ex-yankee pitcher who sells mutual funds in denver , `` dimaggio still was playing and every day mickey would go by his locker , just aching for some word of encouragement from this great man , this hero of his .
it crushed mickey .
mantle has kept the vow .
neither mantle nor maris is totally devoted to baseball above all else .
if working in a zinc mine , which he once did for 87-1/2 cents an hour , paid more than playing center field for the yankees , mantle would work in a zinc mine .
they try to play baseball the best they can .
mantle , beyond any question , can do more things well .
) hitting , mantle has an immediate advantage because he bats both left-handed and right-handed , maris only left-handed .
mantle is considerably better hitting for average (
for maris so far this year ) .
mantle is a master at dragging a bunt toward first base .
maris ran the 100-yard dash in ten seconds in high school and once won a race against luis aparicio , the swift , base-stealing shortstop of the white sox .
maris's throwing arm is stronger .
with this ultimate weapon , the two yankees may have saved baseball from its dullest season .
only two teams in each league ( the yankees and detroit , the dodgers and cincinnati ) are battling for first place .
in 1920 , as the startling news that the 1919 white sox had conspired to lose the world series leaked out , fans grew disillusioned and disinterested in baseball .
the something was the home run .
also included in the entourage : a dog in a black sweater , frankie and peter had an urgent mission : to stage a mammoth inauguration eve entertainment gala in the capital's national guard armory .
i could talk to you for three hours and still not be able to give you all of our plans '' ! !
the biggest single act would doubtless be staged by frankie himself : his inaugural wardrobe had been designed by hollywood couturier don loper , who regularly makes up ladies' ensembles .
a year after he was catapulted over nine officers senior to him and made commandant of the marine corps , general david m. shoup delivered a peppery annual report in the form of a `` happy , warless new year '' greeting to his pentagon staff .
after pushing an accumulation of vines and weeds from the moldboard , i lifted the lines from the dust and found hitched to that plow the finest team i ever held a rein on .
but shoup also gave the corps a tilling in spots .
the officer with the yellow socks or the bay window .
old and new briefly crossed paths in the u.s. senate , then went their respective ways .
meanwhile , after 24 years in the senate , rhode island's durable democrat theodore francis greene -- having walked , swum and cerebrated himself to the hearty age of 93 -- left that august body ( voluntarily , because he could surely have been re-elected had he chosen to run again last november ) , as the oldest man ever to serve in the senate .
the principal of the school announced that -- despite the help of private tutors in hollywood and philadelphia -- fabian is a 10-o'clock scholar in english and mathematics .
south philadelphia high's principal added that the current delay was caused by the `` pressure '' of a movie that the toneless lad was making .
as the world's top sportsman -- pro or amateur -- sports illustrated tapped golf's confident arnold palmer ( time cover , may 2 ) , who staged two cliffhanging rallies to win both the masters and u.s. open crowns , went on to win a record $80,738 for the year .
`` i'm a slob '' , he announced .
i'm useless for anything but racing cars .
it gets so frustrating , but then again i don't know what i could do if i gave up racing '' .
`` i appreciate beauty '' .
chaplin , 71 , who met k. when the soviet boss visited england in 1956 , confided that he hopes to visit russia some time this summer because `` i have marveled at your grandiose experiment and i believe in your future '' .
g. david thompson is one of those names known to the stewards of transatlantic jetliners and to doormen in europe's best hotels , but he is somewhat of an enigma to most people in his own home town of pittsburgh .
last week , in the german city of dusseldorf , g. david thompson was making headlines that could well give pittsburgh pause .
like philadelphia's late dr. albert c. barnes who kept his own great collection closed to the general public ( time , jan. 2 ) , thompson , at 61 , is something of a legend in his own lifetime .
even before he hit big money , he had begun buying modern paintings .
he was able to smell a bargain -- and a masterpiece -- a continent away , and the museum of modern art's alfred barr said of him : `` i have never mentioned a new artist that thompson didn't know about '' .
he could be lavishly generous with friends , cab drivers and bellboys , but with dealers he was tough .
he gathered one of the biggest collections of paul klees in the world .
two years ago thompson offered his collection to the city .
pittsburgh turned him down , just as pittsburgh society had been snubbing him for years .
last year beyeler arranged to sell $1,500,000 worth of klees to the state of north rhine-westphalia , which will house them in a museum that is yet to be built .
at the opening of the dusseldorf show , thompson himself scarcely glanced at the treasures that he was seeing together for the last time .
some observers speculated that this might be his revenge on his home town .
break in georgia
but in all its 175 years , not a single negro student has entered its classrooms .
their entry will crack the total segregation of all public education , from kindergarten through graduate school , in georgia -- and in alabama , mississippi and south carolina as well .
they graduated together from atlanta's turner high school , where valedictorian holmes was first in the class and charlayne third .
holmes went to atlanta's morehouse ( negro ) college , where he is a b student and star halfback .
last fall , after they took their hopes for entering georgia to court , judge bootle ordered them to apply again .
but holmes was rejected again `` on the basis of his record and interview '' .
holmes was asked if he had ever visited a house of prostitution , or a `` beatnik parlor or teahouse '' .
they also said he lied in saying that he had never been `` arrested '' .
negro lawyers dug into the records of 300 white students , found that many were hardly interviewed at all -- and few had academic records as good as hamilton holmes .
judge bootle's decision : `` the two plaintiffs are qualified for admission to said university and would already have been admitted had it not been for their race and color '' .
`` surprised and pleased '' , students holmes and hunter may enter the university of georgia this week .
when the university of chicago's chancellor lawrence a. kimpton submitted his resignation last march , a mighty talent hunt gripped the midway .
such academic statesmen as james b. conant were consulted .
the debate led to a decision that chicago needed neither a big name nor an experienced academic administrator , but rather , as trustee chairman glen a. lloyd put it , `` a top scholar in his own right '' -- a bright light to lure other top scholars to chicago .
it fell to chancellor kimpton , now a standard oil ( indiana ) executive , to spend his nine-year reign tidying up chicago after the 21-year typhoon of idealist robert maynard hutchins .
but though kimpton put chicago in what he felt was working order , some old grads feel that it still needs the kind of lively teachers who filled it in the heady hutchins era .
but he has shown a sixth-sense ability to spot , recruit and excite able researchers , and has developed unexpected talents in fund raising and speech-making .
he avidly reads the wall street journal , and took delight in driving a $250 model a ford for 22 years , then selling it for $300 .
but a historian might put his finger on a specific man and date , and hold out the hope that the troubles will sometime pass away .
by force , he took under his protection , or stole , 900,000 square miles of wilderness in central africa .
and it was filled then as now by quarreling tribes with no political or historical unity .
they were determined by the points at which leopold's explorers and gunmen got tired of walking .
the religions of the people include christianity , mohammedanism , paganism , ancestor worship and animism .
the hospitals contain patients trampled by elephants or run over by sports cars .
it has been made far more difficult by what the belgians have done , or failed to do , in the congo since 1885 .
but by 1908 its record of brutality had touched the national conscience .
one definition of paternalism is `` the principle or practice , on the part of a government , of managing the affairs of a country in the manner of a father dealing with his children '' .
ordinarily a father permits his children to grow up in due time -- but when the colony received independence in 1960 the congolese child , if one imagines him to have been born in 1908 , was 52 and had until then been treated as an infant .
the colony was administered from brussels , with neither the congolese nor the resident belgians having any vote .
in inside africa , john gunther describes one of these , the societe generale , as `` the kind of colossus that might be envisaged if , let us say , the house of morgan , anaconda copper , the mutual life insurance company of new york , the pennsylvania railroad , and various companies producing agricultural products were lumped together , with the united states government as a heavy partner '' .
but they were not .
their program of mass medical care was doubtless the best on the continent ; ;
they also instituted a ration system under which all employers in the congo were required to furnish their employes with clothing and adequate food .
would not the children , if they received all their food on the first day of the month , eat it up immediately , and later go hungry ? ?
during the 1950s there were as many as 25,000 schools in the congo .
the average congolese can do little more than puzzle out the meaning of `` la chatte '' and `` le chien '' and write his name .
but they did not believe in widespread secondary education , much less in college .
indeed , the belgians discouraged higher education , fearing the creation of a native intellectual elite which might cause unrest .
why did the belgians grant independence to a colony so manifestly unprepared to accept it ? ?
they lacked time to prepare the congo , as the british and french had prepared their colonies .
and in brussels , street crowds shouted , `` pas une goutte de sang ! !
) .
rather than teach where teaching was not wanted , they would wash their hands of the mess .
yet there were other motivations and actions which the belgians took after independence for which history may not find them guiltless .
there were four principal ones .
second , there were those ( moise tshombe ) who favored near-balkanization , a loose federalism having a central government of limited authority , with much power residing in the states .
and fourth , there were moderates who were in no hurry for independence and wished to wait until the congo grew up .
a final factor which contributed greatly to the fragmentation of the congo , immediately after independence , was the provincial structure that had been established by the belgians for convenience in administration .
thus some provinces contained tribes which detested each other , and to them independence meant an opportunity for war .
well-wishers around the world hoped that the congo would quickly assume a respectable position in the society of nations .
the president , joseph kasavubu , seemed an able administrator and the premier , patrice lumumba , a reasonable man .
presently the well-armed members of the force publique -- many of them drawn from savage and even cannibalistic tribes , erupted in mutiny , rioting , raping and looting .
the belgian government decided to act , and on july 10 dispatched paratroops to the congo .
confusion became chaos ; ;
lumumba and kasavubu blamed it all on the military intervention by the belgians , and appealed to the united nations to send troops to oust them .
vague in wording , it called for withdrawal of belgian troops and authorized the secretary-general `` to take the necessary steps to provide the ( congolese ) government with such military assistance as may be necessary , until , through the efforts of the congolese government with the technical assistance of the united nations , the national security forces may be able , in the opinion of the government , to meet fully their tasks .
secretary-general hammarskjold decided that it would be preferable if the u.n. troops sent into the congo were to come from african , or at least nonwhite , nations -- certainly not from the u.s. , russia , great britain or france .
ultimately the u.n. army in the congo reached a top strength of 19,000 , including about 5,000 from india and a few soldiers from eire and sweden , who were the only whites .
the belgians were reluctant to withdraw their troops and often obstructed u.n. efforts .
( however , there is little evidence that the late lumumba was a communist .
) lumumba further complicated the u.n.'s mission by initiating small `` wars '' with the secessionist province of katanga and with south kasai which , under albert kalonji , wanted to secede as well .
but by the end of the three-month period , in october 1960 , something approaching calm settled on the congo .
lumumba fired kasavubu .
mobutu promptly flung out the russians , who have not since played any significant part on the local scene , although they have redoubled their obstructionist efforts at u.n. headquarters in new york .
but they left behind them large numbers of officers , variously called `` volunteers '' or `` mercenaries '' , who now staff the army of moise tshombe in katanga , the seceded province which , according to tshombe , holds 65% of the mineral wealth of the entire country .
there was no directive for it -- the security council's resolution had not mentioned political matters , and in any case the united nations by the terms of its charter may not interfere in the political affairs of any nation , whether to unify it , federalize it or balkanize it .
in february the murder of patrice lumumba , who had been kidnaped into katanga and executed on order of tshombe , again stirred the u.n. to action .
although the resolution might have been far more specific , it was considerably tougher than the earlier one .
ordered an investigation of lumumba's death ; ;
the presidency : talking and listening
high up on the president's priority list was the thorny question of bizerte .
ideally , the president would like the french to agree on a `` status quo ante '' on bizerte , and accept a new timetable for withdrawing their forces from the mediterranean base .
the president also discussed the bizerte deadlock with the no. 2 man in the tunisian government , defense minister bahi ladgham , who flew to washington last week to seek u.s. support .
through ladgham , mr. kennedy sent a message along those lines to tunisian president habib bourguiba ; ;
on the latin american front , the president held talks with secretary of the treasury douglas dillon before sending him to uruguay and the inter-american economic and social council ( which the president himself had originally hoped to attend ) .
and that was not all .
chen was equally adamant in his opposition to the admission of outer mongolia ; ;
the president also conferred with emissaries from guatemala and nepal who are seeking more foreign aid .
all week long the president clearly was playing a larger personal role in foreign affairs ; ;
crime : ' skyjacked '
when continental airlines night-coach flight 54 took off at 11:30 one night last week , there was no reason to think it would take any longer .
thirty-one minutes later , when it took off for el paso , hardly anyone of the crew of six or the 65 other passengers paid any attention to the man and teen-age boy who had come aboard .
`` the man was bent over with his hand on his stomach '' , berry said .
john salvador , a farmer from palm desert , calif. , was sitting up front and could see through the door as the trio entered the cockpit .
`` the other fellow had a '' .
the man put his at the head of capt. byron d. rickards .
but last week's pirates , like the cuban-american who recently hijacked an eastern airlines electra ( newsweek , aug. 7 ) , wanted to go to havana .
`` tell your company there are four of us here with guns '' , the elder man told rickards .
but , he told the `` skyjackers '' , the 707 didn't carry enough fuel to reach havana ; ;
most passengers didn't know what had happened until they got on the ground .
`` the old man came from the front of the plane and said he wanted four volunteers to go to cuba '' , mccauley said , `` and like a nut i raised my hand .
what the man wanted was four persons to volunteer as hostages , along with the crew .
fred mullen from mercer island , wash. ; ;
fla. , and leonard gilman , a former college boxer and veteran of the u.s. immigration service border patrol .
they found a large welcoming group -- el paso policemen , border patrol , sheriff's deputies , and fbi men , who surged around the plane with rifles and submachine guns .
the ground crew , which ordinarily fuels a 707 in twenty minutes , took fully three hours .
actually , the officers on the ground had no intention of letting the hijackers get away with any kind of an airplane ; ;
mr. kennedy had been informed early in the day of the attempt to steal the plane , kept in touch throughout by telephone .
as the morning wore on and a blazing west texas sun wiped the shadows off the franklin mountains , police got close enough to the plane to pry into the baggage compartment .
tension
the father , by accident or perhaps to show , as he said , `` we mean business '' , took the and fired a slug between the legs of second officer norman simmons .
take off or see the hostages killed .
several police cars , loaded with armed officers , raced alongside , blazing away at the tires of the big jet .
the plane slowed to a halt .
the day wore on .
a few minutes later , fbi agent francis crosby , talking fast , eased up the ramp to the plane , unarmed .
so did hostages casey , cleveland , and mullen .
the elder bearden had one pistol in his hand , the other in a hip pocket .
he caught officer simmons' eye , nodded toward young bearden , and -- `` i swung my right as hard as i could .
frog-marched off the airplane at 1:48 p.m. , the beardens were held in bail of $100,000 each on charges of kidnapping and transporting a stolen plane across state lines .
) back home in coolidge , ariz. , his 36-year-old wife , mary , said : `` i thought they were going to phoenix to look for jobs '' .
taking precedence over all other legislation on capitol hill last week was the military strength of the nation .
with the money all but in hand , however , the administration indicated that , instead of the 225,000 more men in uniform that president kennedy had requested , the armed forces would be increased by only 160,000 .
in all , the senate signed a check for $46.7 billion , which not only included the extra $3.5 billion requested the week before by president kennedy , but tacked on $754 million more than the president had asked for .
) the house , which had passed its smaller appropriation before the president's urgent call for more , was expected to go along with the increased defense budget in short order .
the senate ( by voice vote ) and the house ( by 224-170 ) passed and sent to the white house the compromise farm bill which the president is expected to sign , not too unhappily .
debate on the all-important foreign-aid bill , with its controversial long-range proposals , had just begun on the senate floor at the weekend .
food : stew a la mulligatawny
but , because they are politicians , they like to talk as poor-mouth as the lowliest voter .
over the years , enlivened chiefly by disputes about the relative merits of maine and idaho potatoes , the menu has pursued its drab all-american course .
but plain old bean soup , served daily since the turn of the century ( at the insistence of the late sen. fred dubois of idaho ) , made clear to the citizenry that the senate's stomach was in the right place .
holders of toll-road bonds are finding improvements in monthly reports on operation of the turnpikes .
higher toll rates also are helping boost revenues .
things are looking up these days for many of the state turnpikes on which investors depend for income from their toll-road bonds .
that added traffic means rising streams of dimes and quarters at toll gates .
another result is that buyers are tending to bid up the prices of these tax-exempt bonds .
on balance , prices of those bonds have slipped a bit since then .
on these bonds , price rises since february 21 easily outnumber price declines .
investors , however , still see an element of more-than-ordinary risk in the toll-road bonds .
many of the toll-road bonds still are selling at prices that offer the prospect of an annual yield of 4 per cent , or very close to that .
that 4 per cent yield is well below the return to be had on good corporation bonds .
for investors whose income is taxed at high rates , though , a tax-free yield of 4 per cent is high .
swelling traffic .
the report is based on a survey by blyth & company , investment bankers .
and there is the bright note : the gains were achieved in the face of temporary traffic lags late in 1960 and early in 1961 as a result of business recession .
indication : the long-term trend of turnpike traffic is upward .
traffic on that road slumped sharply in january and february , as compared with those same months in 1960 .
as a result , the road's net revenues in the 12 months ending march 31 were 186 per cent of the annual interest payments on the turnpike bonds .
that same pattern of earnings shows up on the massachusetts turnpike .
costs were held down , despite a bitter winter .
the road's engineers look for further improvement when the turnpike is extended into boston .
some turnpikes have not been in full operation long enough to prove what they can do .
in the 12 months ended in february , 1960 , the highway earned enough to cover 64 per cent of its interest load -- with the remainder paid out of initial reserves .
that improvement is continuing .
success , for many turnpikes , has come hard .
in these cases , the turnpike managements have had to turn to toll-rate increases , or to costly improvements such as extensions or better connections with other highways .
higher tolls are planned for july 1 , 1961 , on the richmond-petersburg , va. , turnpike , and proposals for increased tolls on the texas turnpike are under study .
progress is being made , too , in improving motorists' access to many turnpikes .
net earnings of that road rose from 62 per cent of interest requirements in calendar 1957 to 86 per cent in the 12 months ended feb. 28 , 1961 .
meanwhile , there appears to be enough money in the road's reserve fund to cover the interest deficiency for eight more years .
investors studying the toll-road bonds for opportunities find that not all roads are nearing their goals .
if nothing is done , the prospect is that that road will be in default of interest in 1962 .
these , however , are exceptions .
it's going to take time for investors to learn how many of the toll-road bonds will pay out in full .
many others are attracting the traffic needed to push revenues up to the break-even point .
commerce secretary luther hodges , accompanied by a member of our staff , on may 10 toured plants of two of italy's biggest companies -- fiat , the auto producer , and olivetti , maker of typewriters and calculating machines .
`` follow secretary hodges through the fiat plant , and you learn this :
about half of these are exported .
a skilled worker on the assembly line , for example , earns $37 a week .
fiat officials say they have had no strikes for more than six years .
`` olivetti had a special interest for hodges .
within a year , without reducing wages , underwood's production costs were cut one third , prices were slashed .
`` the olivetti plant near turin has modern layout , modern machinery .
`` hodges is trying to get more foreign business to go to the u.s. .
`` hodges predicted : ' i think we will see more foreign firms coming to the u.s. .
foreign competition has become so severe in certain textiles that washington is exploring new ways of handling competitive imports .
important aspects of the kennedy textile plans are these :
chief aims of the proposed conference are worth noting .
point is that developing countries often build up a textile industry first , need encouragement to get on their feet .
idea is to let these countries earn their way as much as possible .
japan , since 1957 , has been `` voluntarily '' curbing exports of textiles to the u.s. .
none of these countries is happy with these arrangements .
hong kong interests loudly protest limiting their exports to britain , while spanish and portuguese textiles pour into british market unrestrictedly .
the kennedy hope is that , at the conference or through bilateral talks , the low-wage textile-producing countries in asia and europe will see that `` dumping '' practices cause friction all around and may result in import quotas .
this may point the way toward international stabilization agreements in other products .
note , too , that the kennedy textile plan looks toward modernization or shrinkage of the u.s. textile industry .
in veiled terms , that's what the kennedy administration is saying to the american textile industry .
special depreciation on new textile machinery may be allowed .
import quotas aren't ruled out where the national interest is involved .
rather , they are impressed with the british government's success in forcing -- and helping -- the british textile industry to shrink and to change over to other products .
among the highest-paid workers in the world are u.s. coal miners .
steel company of wales , a british steelmaker , wants to bring in virginia coal , cut down on its takings of welsh coal in order to be able to compete more effectively -- especially in foreign markets .
u.s. coal is cheap , despite high wages , because of widespread mechanization of mines , wide coal seams , attactive rates on ocean freight .
productivity of u.s. miners is twice that of the british .
they threaten to strike .
the british coal industry is unprofitable , has large coal stocks it can't sell .
there wouldn't be much demand for it , i'm afraid '' .
what to buy out of the year's grist of nearly 15,000 book titles ? ?
most library budgets are hopelessly inadequate .
the plight of a small community library is proportionately worse .
in some parts of the country , however , a co-operative movement has begun to grow , under the wing of state governments , whereby , with the financial help of the state , libraries share their book resources on a county-wide or regional basis .
because it is so large a state , with marked contrasts in population density , the organization of the new york co-operative offers a cross-section of how the plan works .
at the other are organizations like the newly formed nassau library system , in a high-density area , with ample resources and a rapidly growing territory to serve .
it was a step in the right direction , but it took an additional act passed in 1958 to establish fully the thriving systems of today .
an earlier difficulty was overcome by making it clear that individual libraries in any area might join or not , as they saw fit .
a large , well-stocked library , surrounded in a county by smaller ones , may feel that the demands on its resources are likely to be too great .
within a system , however , the autonomy of each member library is preserved .
all services are given without cost to members .
to set up a co-operative library system , the law requires a central book collection of 100,000 nonfiction volumes as the nucleus , and the system is organized around it .
each system develops differently , according to the area it serves , but the universal goal is to pool the resources of a given area for maximum efficiency .
in nassau county , for example , the heavily settled long island suburb of new york city , the system is credited by the state with serving one million persons , a figure that has doubled since 1950 .
the nassau system recognizes that its major task it to broaden reference service , what with the constant expansion of education and knowledge , and the pressure of population growth in a metropolitan area .
nassau is currently building a central collection of reference materials in its hempstead headquarters , which will reach its goal of 100,000 volumes by 1965 .
basic reference tools are the backbone of the collection , but there is also specialization in science and technology , an indicated weakness in local libraries .
the entire headquarters collection is available to the patrons of all members on interlibrary loans .
it is connected by teletype with the state library in albany , which will supply any book to a system that the system itself cannot provide .
each subject center library was chosen because of its demonstrated strength in a particular area , which headquarters could then build upon .
freeport houses social science , pure science , and language ; ;
levittown has applied science , business , and literature ; ;
the reference coordinator at headquarters also serves as a consultant , and is available to work with the local librarian in helping to strengthen local reference service .
public libraries in nassau county have been lending books to each other by mail for a quarter-century , but the system enables this process to operate on an organized and far more comprehensive basis .
the system passes on these savings to its members .
books are not the only resource of the system .
the most recent film catalogue , available at each library , lists 110 titles presently in the collection , any of which may be borrowed without charge .
workshops are conducted by the system's audio-visual consultant for the staffs of member libraries , teaching them the effective use of film as a library service .
consequently an experienced children's librarian at headquarters conducts a guidance program designed to promote well-planned library activities , cooperating with the children's librarians in member libraries by means of individual conferences , workshops , and frequent visits .
sample copies of new books are on display at headquarters , where librarians may evaluate them by themselves or in workshop groups .
headquarters of the nassau system is an increasingly busy place these days , threatening to expand beyond its boundaries .
it prepares cooperative displays ( posters , booklists , brochures , and other promotional material ) for use in member libraries ; ;
and it publishes sum and substance , a monthly newsletter , which reports the system's activities to the staffs and trustees of member libraries .
in nassau , as in other systems , the long-range objective is to bring the maximum service of libraries to bear on the schools , and on adult education in general .
library use is multiplying daily , and the bulk of the newcomers are those maligned americans , the teen-agers .
today , more than ever before , the survival of our free society depends upon the citizen who is both informed and concerned .
the need for lifetime reading is apparent .
the desire and ability to read are important aspects of our cultural life .
if we are not discriminating in our reading ; ;
we must not permit our society to become a slave to the scientific age , as might well happen without the cultural and spiritual restraint that comes from the development of the human mind through wisdom absorbed from the written word .
although progress has been made in america's system of libraries it still falls short of what is required if we are to maintain the standards that are needed for an informed america .
the inadequacy of our library system will become critical unless we act vigorously to correct this condition .
in college libraries , 57 per cent of the total number of books are owned by 124 of 1,509 institutions surveyed last year by the u.s. office of education .
in every aspect of service -- to the public , to children in schools , to colleges and universities -- the library of today is failing to render vitally needed services .
this is one of the main reasons for national library week , april 16-22 , and for its theme : `` for a richer , fuller life , read '' ! !
the general assembly , which adjourns today , has performed in an atmosphere of crisis and struggle from the day it convened .
there followed the historic appropriations and budget fight , in which the general assembly decided to tackle executive powers .
long-range planning of programs and ways to finance them have become musts if the state in the next few years is to avoid crisis-to-crisis government .
in all the turmoil , some good legislation was passed .
certainly all can applaud passage of an auto title law , the school bills , the increase in teacher pensions , the ban on drag racing , acceptance by the state of responsibility for maintenance of state roads in municipalities at the same rate as outside city limits , repeal of the college age limit law and the road maintenance bond issue .
only a token start was made in attacking the tax reappraisal question and its companion issue of attracting industry to the state .
fortunately it spared us from the usual spate of silly resolutions which in the past have made georgia look like anything but `` the empire state of the south '' .
in the interim between now and next year , we trust the house and senate will put their minds to studying georgia's very real economic , fiscal and social problems and come up with answers without all the political heroics .
the league of women voters , 40 now and admitting it proudly , is inviting financial contributions in the windup of its fund drive .
these women whose organization grew out of the old suffrage movement are dedicated to thomas jefferson's dictum that one must cherish the people's spirit but `` keep alive their attention '' .
newspapermen and politicians especially are aware of the penetrating attention and expert analysis the league gives to public affairs .
the harder the choice , the more willing the league is to wade in .
look to coosa valley for industrial progress
coupling its own budget of $83,750 with a $30,000 state grant authorized by gov. vandiver , the group expects to sign a contract in march with georgia tech. .
the undertaking has abundant promise .
rusk idea strengthens united states defense
the danger lay not in believing that our own a-bombs would deter russia's use of hers ; ;
the danger lay in the american delusion that nuclear deterrence was enough .
this strategy heightened the possibility that we would have a nuclear war .
this left the soviets plenty of leeway to start low-grade brushfire aggressions with considerable impunity .
dekalb budget shows county is on beam
it includes a raise in the county minimum wage , creation of several new jobs at the executive level , financing of beefed-up industrial development efforts , and increased expenditures for essential services such as health and welfare , fire protection , sanitation and road maintenance .
somewhere , somebody is bound to love us
touring africa , the new u.s. assistant secretary of state observed `` africa should be for the africans '' and the british promptly denounced him .
chin up , soapy .
confidence in the state's economic future is reflected in the georgia power company's record construction budget for this year .
it is good to know that georgia will continue to have sufficient electrical power not only to meet the demands of normal growth but to encourage a more rapid rate of industrialization .
actually it amounts to $1,250,000 above what the institution already is receiving , considering the additional half-million dollars gov. vandiver allocated last year from the state surplus .
but exactly how far it will go toward improving conditions is another question because there is so much that needs doing .
the work week of attendants who are on duty 65 hours and more per week should be reduced .
patients deserve more attention than they are getting .
the national average is more than $4 and that figure is considered by experts in the mental health field to be too low .
georgia has made some reforms , true .
but in so many other areas we still are dragging .
the boost is helpful but inadequate .
assassination , even of a tyrant , is repulsive to men of good conscience .
but whether the murder of el benefactor in ciudad trujillo means freedom for the people of the caribbean fiefdom is a question that cannot now be answered .
the responsibility for scores of deaths , including the abduction and murder of jesus maria galindez , a professor at columbia university in new york , has been laid at his door .
it was a sort of poetic justice that at the time of his own demise a new plot to overthrow the venezuelan government , reportedly involving the use of dominican arms by former venezuelan dictator marcos perez jimenez , has been uncovered and quashed .
unquestionably trujillo did some good things for his country : he improved public facilities such as roads and sanitation , attracted industry and investment and raised the standard of living notably .
el benefactor's vanity grew with his personal wealth .
he maintained amply financed lobbies in the united states and elsewhere which sycophantically chanted his praise , and his influence extended even to congress .
tardily the government here came to understand how this country's own reputation was tarnished by the association with repression .
thereupon followed a demonstration that tyranny knows no ideological confines .
but after the censure he and his propaganda started mouthing communist slogans .
what comes after trujillo is now the puzzle .
perhaps the army will be able to maintain stability , but the vacuum of free institutions creates a great danger .
such a twist would be a tragedy for the dominican people , who deserve to breathe without fear .
start on rapid transit
in presenting plans for such express buses before the montgomery county council , the administrator of the ncta , c. darwin stolzenbach , was frankly seeking support for the projects his agency will soon be launching .
because the buses would not stop on the parkway , land for bus stations and for parking areas nearby will be needed .
must berlin remain divided ? ?
so far as the record is concerned , the western powers have not acquiesced and should not do so .
the wartime protocol of september 12 , 1944 , designated a special `` greater berlin '' area , comprising the entire city , to be under joint occupation .
after the berlin blockade and airlift , the council of foreign ministers in 1949 declared a purpose `` to mitigate the effects of the present administrative division of germany and of berlin '' .
then they moved offices of the east german puppet government into east berlin and began illegally to treat it as the capital of east germany .
the chancellor had as much business there as ulbricht had in east berlin -- and was certainly less provocative than the juvenile sound-truck taunts of gerhard eisler .
they insisted on the `` fundamental fact '' that `` the whole of berlin has a quadripartite status '' .
there remains , of course , the question of what the west can do beyond diplomatic protest to prevent the illegal efforts from becoming accomplished facts .
another remained when an american army car was recovered but with a broken glass .
remembering the step-by-step fate of danzig and the west german misgivings about `` salami '' tactics , it is to be hoped that the dispatch of general clay to west berlin as president kennedy's representative will mark a stiffening of response not only to future indignities and aggressions but also to some that have passed .
thousands of buffalo ( `` bison '' they will never be to the man on the street ) grazing like a mobile brown throw-rug upon the rolling , dusty-green grassland .
that picture of the american prairie is as indelibly fixed in the memory of those who have studied the conquest of the american continent as any later cinema image of the west made in live-oak canyons near hollywood .
the national park service now proposes to preserve an area in pottawatomie county , northeast kansas , as a `` prairie national park '' .
wooded stream valleys in the folds of earth would be saved .
the park service makes an impressive ecological and statistical case for creating this new park .
whisky on the air
starting with small stations not members of the national association of broadcasters , the firm apparently is seeking to break down the anti-liquor barriers in major-market stations .
the national association of broadcasters code specifically bars hard-liquor commercials .
even the distilled spirits institute has long had a specific prohibition .
simply because the subverting action of firms that are not members of the distilled spirits institute and of radio and tv stations that are not members of the nab tends to spread .
although the false glamour surrounding bourbon or other whisky commercials is possibly no more fatuous than the pseudo-sophistication with which tv soft-drinks are downed or toothpaste applied , there is a sad difference between enticing a viewer into sipping oopsie-cola and gulling him into downing bourbon .
new york : democrats' choice
in the central contest , that for mayor , they may have found some pertinent points in what each faction has said about the other .
while all citizens share in blame for lax municipal ethics the wagner regime has seen serious problems in the schools , law enforcement and fiscal policies .
state controller arthur levitt , on the other hand , cannot effectively deny that he has chosen to be the candidate of those party leaders who as a rule have shown livelier interest in political power than in the city's welfare .
both men are known to be honest and public-spirited .
as mayor , mr. levitt might turn out to be more independent than some of his leading supporters would like .
mr. wagner might or might not be a `` new '' mayor in this third term , now that he is free of the pressure of those party leaders whom he calls `` bosses '' .
but his reelection would strengthen the liberal democrats and the labor unions who back him .
the vote still gives citizens a voice in the operation of their government and their party .
both mr. k's have so far continued to speak softly and carry big sticks over laos .
but at the same time he moved his helicopter-borne marines to within an hour of the fighting .
for mr. kennedy , speaking softly and carrying a sizable stick is making the best of a bad situation .
he must show at the outset that he means exactly what he says .
at his press conference mr. kennedy said , `` all we want in laos is peace not war a truly neutral government not a cold war pawn '' .
since laos is of no more purely military value to moscow itself than it is to washington , this approach might be expected to head off mr. khrushchev for the moment .
as wars go , laos is an extremely little one .
the hard core of the pro-communist rebel force numbers only some 2,000 tough viet minh guerrilla fighters .
but if anything can bring home to mr. khrushchev the idea that he will not really get much enjoyment from watching this braddock-against-the-indians contest , it will probably be the fact that seato forces are ready to attempt it -- plus the fact that moscow has something to lose from closing off disarmament and other bigger negotiations with washington .
actually it would be more accurate to say that the leader of the alliance now has swung fully behind the british policy of seeking to achieve a neutral laos via the international bargaining table .
the state department tacitly rejected the neutral laos idea after the geneva conference of 1954 , and last year washington backed the rightist coup that ousted neutral premier souvanna phouma .
the road to a guaranteed-neutral , coup-proof laos is today almost as difficult as warfare on that nation's terrain .
the world awaits mr. khrushchev's choice of alternatives .
the senate's overwhelming ( 64-13 ) vote to support locally controlled educational tv efforts should be emulated in the lower house .
but this year prospects may be better .
this year's senate measure would provide each state and the district of columbia with $1,000,000 to be used in support of private , state , or municipal etv efforts .
the relatively few communities that have educational stations have found them of considerable value .
other communities -- the ones to be aided most by the senate bill -- have had difficulty starting such stations because of the high initial cost of equipment .
goodby , mr. sam
sam rayburn was a good man , a good american , and , third , a good democrat .
mr. speaker , mr. sam , and mr. democrat , at one and the same time .
mr. rayburn was not an easy man to classify or to label .
he was not a rear-looking conservative , yet partisans of that persuasion will miss him as much as any .
sam rayburn took unnumbered secrets with him to the grave , for he was never loquacious , and his word , once given , was not subject to retraction .
the demonstration of his power was never flamboyant or theatrical .
a growl , a nod , was usually enough .
he would rise in the well of the house , his chin upon his chest , his hands gripping the side of a desk , and the political and legislative chatter would subside into silence .
he made good , plain american common sense and the house usually recognized it and acted upon it .
he expected democrats to do their duty when it had been patiently pointed out to them .
he was , of course , in the house for a very long time .
to almost two generations of americans it must have seemed as though the existence of mr. sam coincided with that of the house .
to be presiding officer of it was the end of his desire and ambition .
he served `` with '' him .
woodrow wilson , with whom he began his years in washington , warren g. harding , calvin coolidge , fdr , with whom he managed a social revolution .
he was a fighter for those of his own party .
as it was , his absence because of his final illness was a blow to the administration .
he was his own man , not an automatic obstructionist .
under any name -- mr. speaker , mr. democrat , mr. sam -- he was a good man .
thirteen italian airmen who went to the congo to serve the cause of peace under the united nations banner have instead met violent death at the hands of congolese troops supposedly their friends .
simply out of bloodlust , their murderers dismembered the bodies and tossed the remains into the river .
in other words , atrocities by savages wearing the uniform of the central government might be condoned , had the victims been serving the cause of dissident katanga .
to the contrary , through the past six weeks violence has been piled upon violence .
yet this basic condition of outlawry and anarchy is not the work of katanga .
the main question raised by the incident is how much longer will un bury its head in the sand on the congo problem instead of facing the bitter fact that it has no solution in present terms ? ?
right now , they are pushing a resolution which would have un use its forces to invade and subjugate katanga .
the un army is too weak , too demoralized for the task .
last , it makes no sense to deliver katanga , the one reasonably solid territory , into the existing chaos .
the idea was not even suggested because political expediency prevailed over wisdom .
but if any realism and feeling for truth remain in the general assembly , it is time for men of courage to measure the magnitude of the failure and urge some new approach .
featherbed reversal
the editorial was based on a news association dispatch which said that the telegraphers had secured an agreement whereby they were guaranteed 40 hours' pay per week whether they worked or not and that a reduction in their number was limited to 2 per cent per year .
the statement was also made that undoubtedly the railroad had received some compensating benefit from the telegraphers , but that it was difficult to imagine what could balance a job for life .
also , normal personnel attrition would make the job reduction provision more or less academic .
the solution reached in the agreement was more acceptable to the railroad than that originally included in a series of union demands .
time was when the house of delegates of the american bar association leaned to the common sense side .
it was , the brief writers decided , `` man's best hope for a peaceful and law abiding world '' .
meanwhile , in moscow , khrushchev was adding his bit to the march of world law by promising to build a bomb with a wallop equal to 100 million tons of tnt , to knock sense into the heads of those backward oafs who can't see the justice of surrendering west berlin to communism .
while he was at it , the philosopher of the kremlin contributed an additional assist to the rule of reason by bellowing at those in the west who can't appreciate coexistence thru suicide .
the only response we can think of is the humble one that at least we aren't playing the marimba with our shoes in the united nations , but perhaps the heavy domes in the house of delegates can improve on this feeble effort .
the craft made the familiar unwelcome flight to havana , where , for some unknown reason , castro rushed to the airport to express mortification to the colombian foreign minister , a passenger , who is not an admirer of old ten o'clock shadow .
less respect for the legal conventions was displayed by castro's right hand man , che guevara , who edified the inter-american economic and social council meeting in montevideo by reading two secret american documents purloined from the united states embassy at caracas , venezuela .
perhaps the moralities of world law are not advanced by stealing american diplomatic papers and planes , but the kennedy administration can always file a demurrer to the effect that , but for its own incompetence in protecting american interests , these things would not happen .
pass the iron rations , please , and light another candle , for it's getting dark down here and we're minded to read a bit of world law just to pass the time away .
.
the request for lower rates originated with the southern railway , which has spent a good deal of time and money developing a 100-ton hopper car with which it says it can move grain at about half what it costs in the conventional , smaller car .
the board's action shows what free enterprise is up against in our complex maze of regulatory laws .
word of dag hammarskjold's death in an african plane crash has sent a shockwave around the globe .
it was on the eve of a momentous u.n. session to come to grips with cold war issues .
mr. hammarskjold was in africa on a mission of peace .
he earnestly urged a cease-fire .
the u.n.-chartered plane which was flying from the conference city of ndola in northern rhodesia had been riddled with machinegun bullets last weekend and was newly repaired .
the death of mr. hammarskjold removes the united nations' most controversial leader .
he courageously defended the rights of small nations , and he stood his ground against the savage attacks of the communist bloc .
his policies had resolved the conflicts that threatened to ignite the cold war and workable solutions were beginning to take shape .
he gave his life for his beliefs .
it is a crucial session with the world on the edge of momentous developments .
that is the hope of mankind .
reaching agreement on projects of value to the whole community has long been one of greater miami's hardest tasks .
even when public bodies arrived at a consensus , at least one dissenting vote has been usual .
all nine members of the inter-american center authority voted for goodbody & company's proposal to finance the long-awaited trade and cultural center .
if the indenture is accepted , the authority will proceed to validate a bond issue repayable from revenue .
the next step awaits approval today by the metro commissioners as the members of the dade county port authority .
less than half the sum has been spent , since the interama board pinched pennies during that period of painstaking negotiations .
unanimity on interama is not surprising .
the city of miami recently yielded a prior claim of $8.5 million on the graves tract to clear the way for the project .
so have the people's elected spokesmen at the state and federal levels .
a short report and a good one
much happened in this field during the past 12 months .
some accounts are quite lengthy but florida's is the shortest of all , requiring only four paragraphs .
`` no complaints or charges have been filed during the past year , either verbally or written , from any individual or group .
problems have arisen in this sensitive field but have been handled in most cases with understanding and restraint .
while some think we move too fast and others too slowly , florida's record is a good one and stands out among the 50 .
west germany will face the crucial tests that lie ahead , on berlin and unification , with a coalition government .
chancellor adenauer's christian democratic party slipped only a little in the voting but it was enough to lose the absolute bundestag majority it has enjoyed since 1957 .
inevitably this means some compromise .
both willy brandt's social democrats , who gained 22 seats in the new parliament , and the free democrats , who picked up 23 , will insist on that before they enter the government .
if he becomes chancellor , dr. erhart would make few changes .
he is dedicated to building the nation's strength and , as are all west germans , to a free berlin and to reunion with captive east germany .
if the party of adenauer and erhart , with 45 per cent of the vote , approaches the party of willy brandt , which won 36 per cent , the result would be a stiffening of the old resolve .
the free democrats ( 12 per cent of the vote ) believe a nuclear war can be avoided by negotiating with the soviet union , and more dealings with the communist bloc .
it could go either way , since the gains for both points of view were about the same .
west germany , with its industrial and military might , reaffirmed its democracy and remains firm with the free nations .
better ask before joining
but it can be dangerous if the joiner doesn't want to make a spectacle of himself .
one specific example is a secret `` fraternity '' which will `` coordinate anti-communist efforts '' .
according to the chicago tribune news service , state atty. gen. stanley mosk of california has devised a series of questions which the joiner might well ask about any organization seeking his money and his name : 1 .
2 .
3 .
4 .
5 .
6 .
in some instances a seventh question can be added : 7 .
if the would-be joiner asks these questions he is not likely to be duped by extremists who are seeking to capitalize on the confusions and the patriotic apprehensions of americans in a troubled time .
the latter is what concerns us all .
and what you can't see , the land underneath the water , belongs to someone , too .
the only real problem is to devise a plan whereby the owners of the above-water land can develop their property without the public losing its underwater land and the right to its development for public use and enjoyment .
in this instance , happily , insistence is being made that our share is protected .
closed doors in city hall
we had assumed that at least this local legislative body had nothing to hide , and , therefore , had no objections to making the deliberations of its committees and the city commissions available to the public .
it is the intent of the law that their actions be taken openly and that their deliberations be conducted openly .
the people , in delegating authority , do not give their public servants the right to decide what is good for the people to know and what is not good for them to know .
since 1953 california has led the nation in enacting guarantees that public business shall be publicly conducted , but not until this year did the lawmakers in sacramento plug the remaining loopholes in the brown act .
when all else fails , it is argued that open sessions slow down governmental operations .
without public scrutiny the deliberations of public agencies would no doubt be conducted more speedily .
help when needed
outwardly , ciudad trujillo is calm .
mr. balaguer is in control , and opposition leaders have no further excuse to suspect his offer of a coalition government preliminary to free elections in the spring .
ultimately either the trujillos would have been returned to power or the conflict would have produced conditions favorable to a takeover by dominican elements responsive to castro in cuba .
but there was no complaint from the dominican crowds which lined ciudad trujillo's waterfront shouting , `` vive yankees '' ! !
mr. balaguer's troubles are by no means over .
in cooperating toward that objective , oas might move with the speed and effectiveness demonstrated by the united states .
those watching the growing rivalry between craft unions and industrial unions may recognize all the pressures that led to the big labor split in 1935 .
craft unions seek work that industrial unions claim , such as factory maintenance .
that breach was healed 20 years later by merger of the american federation of labor and the congress of industrial organizations .
but automation and the increasing complexity of factories has renewed the competition for jobs .
whether it could be as disastrous for american labor as , say , jimmy hoffa of the teamsters , is a matter of conjecture .
engaged as it is in a battle for world trade as a condition of national survival , this country can have little patience with labor's family feuds .
deterrent
but the secretary insists that the success of the american farmer is the `` greatest single source of strength '' in the struggle to insure freedom around the world .
this shouldn't surprise the secretary ; ;
in fact , over the years , the american farmer's capacity to over-produce has cost the taxpayers a large dollar .
the 1961 feed grain program , which the secretary sponsored , has been declared a billion dollar fiasco .
but the farmers outsmarted washington by shortening the distance between the rows and pouring on the fertilizer .
perhaps , as mr. freeman says , american agriculture may stop the communists , but it is also swindling the american taxpayer .
a senate subcommittee headed by sen. jackson of washington has been going over the state department and has reached some predictable conclusions .
the subcommittee is not alone in questioning the effectiveness of the department .
but those who would revitalize so complex an organization must , first of all , overcome the resistance of layers of officials wedded to traditional procedures , suspicious of innovation and fearful of mistakes .
this tends to create friction and confusion and has not made it easier for secretary rusk to restore vigor and initiative among his subordinates .
the jackson report will provide some of the political support mr. rusk will need if he is to get rid of department personnel engaged , as sen. jackson puts it , `` in work that does not really need doing '' .
self-criticism is a rare but needed commodity in congress .
forecasting economic activity is a hazardous undertaking even for the specialist .
james p. mitchell , when he was the head of the department , promised to eat his hat if unemployment didn't drop below three million a couple of years ago .
his successor , secretary goldberg , also has been guessing wrong on a drop in the unemployment rate which has been holding just under 7 per cent for the last 11 months .
he is basing his guess on new government statistics that show business has broadened its stride -- a new record high in personal income , an increase in housing starts , a spurt in retail sales and a gain in orders for durable goods .
mr. goldberg has less reason for missing .
the odds thus appear favorable that the secretary's neck may be spared .
cambodia's chief of state , who has been accused of harboring communist marauders and otherwise making life miserable for neighboring south viet nam and thailand , insists he would be very unhappy if communism established its power in southeast asia .
`` i have to see the facts '' , is the way the prince puts it .
prince sihanouk's powers of prognostication some day may be confirmed but history is not likely to praise the courage of his convictions .
commerce secretary hodges seems to have been cast in the role of pacemaker for official washington's economic forecasters .
recently treasury secretary dillon and labor secretary goldberg fell into line with mr. hodges' appraisal , though there has been some reluctance to do so at the white house .
he is the first top administration officer to see the bottom of the slump .
february's volume was 1 per cent above january's for the first pickup since last october , although it's still 1.5 per cent off from february 1960 .
in newark , for example , this gain was put at 26 per cent above the year-earlier level .
another optimistic sign , this one from the labor department , was the report that the long rise in unemployment compensation payments `` was interrupted for the first time in the week ending feb. 25 '' .
mr. hodges is so hopeful over the outlook that he doesn't think there will be any need of a cut in income taxes .
prosperity for the whole nation is certainly preferred to a tax cut .
new jersey folk need not be told of the builder's march to the sea , for in a single generation he has parceled and populated miles of our shoreline and presses on to develop the few open spaces that remain .
against the dramatic fight being waged for preservation of 30 miles of cape cod shoreline , the tiny tract at stone harbor may seem unimportant .
the move for establishment of a national seashore park on 30,000 acres of cape cod , from provincetown to chatham , is strengthened by president kennedy's interest in that area .
by comparison , stone harbor bird sanctuary's allies seem less formidable , for aside from the audubon society , they are mostly the snowy , common and cattle egrets and the louisiana , green , little blue and black-crowned herons who nest and feed there .
the desirability of preserving such places as the cape dunes and stone harbor sanctuary becomes more apparent every year .
but that heritage is shrinking even faster .
much of the glamor president kennedy's peace corps may have held for some prospective applicants has been removed by sargent shriver , the head corpsman .
first of all , the recruits will have to undergo arduous schooling .
then off to a remote place in an underdeveloped country where the diet , culture , language and living conditions will be different .
despite all this , the idea apparently has captured the imagination of countless youths whose parents are probably more surprised by the response than anybody else .
st. louis sits in the center of a relatively slow-growing and in some places stagnant mid-continent region .
not all st. louis industries , of course , have a market area confined to the immediate neighborhood .
the city has a stake in stimulating growth and purchasing power throughout outstate missouri and southern illinois .
that is one approach .
he says the state , in order to proceed with economic development , must develop an understanding of how the various parts of its economy fit together and dovetail into the national economy .
he and dean john w. schwada of the business school outlined the project at a recent conference .
in southern illinois , the new federal program of help to economically depressed areas ought to provide some stimulus to growth .
carbondale is in the herrin-murphysboro-west frankfort labor market , where unemployment has been substantially higher than the national average .
politics-ridden st. clair county in illinois presents another piece of the problem of metropolitan development .
the unstable political situation there represents one reason new plants shy away from the east side .
st. louis county under its present leadership also has largely closed its eyes to the need for governmental reform , and permitted parochial interests to take priority over area-wide interests .
metropolitan st. louis's relatively slow rate of growth ought to be a priority concern of the political , business , civic and other leaders on both sides of the mississippi .
an excess of zeal
still we must confess that sometimes some of them go too far .
having whipped mr. de sapio in the primaries and thus come into control of tammany hall , they have changed the name to chatham hall .
granted that the tammany name and the tammany tiger often were regarded as badges of political shame , the sachems of the hall also have a few good marks to their credit .
after all , it goes back to the days in which sedition was not un-american , the days in which the sons of st. tammany conspired to overthrow the government by force and violence -- the british government , that is .
they will -- when they give up the donkey and the elephant .
that might go over .
the white house itself has taken steps to remove a former batista official , col. mariano faget , from his preposterous position as interrogator of cuban refugees for the immigration service .
the kennedy administration had assured anti-castro cubans that it would have nothing to do with associates of dictator batista .
moreover , col. faget's information on cuba was too outdated to be useful in `` screening '' castro agents ; ;
and while he had headed batista's anti-communist section , the batista regime did not disturb the communists so much as more open opponents who were alleged to be communists .
gen. swing has received public attention before this for abuse of some of the prerogatives of his office .
some reports say he was rescued from timely retirement by his friend , congressman walter of pennsylvania , at a moment when the kennedy administration was diligently searching for all the house votes it could get .
at that point the administration will have little reason to hang onto gen. swing .
mr. eisenhower , politician
as a former president , however , mr. eisenhower abandoned this role to engage in partisan sniping during a new york republican rally , and generally missed his target .
this was juvenile ridicule .
his words were the more ungracious to come from a man who lent his name to the eisenhower exchange fellowships dedicated to the same goal of international understanding .
it was the eisenhower administration which produced the largest peacetime deficit .
this statement recalls the 1959 berlin crisis , when president eisenhower first told reporters that berlin could not be defended with conventional weapons and then added that a nuclear defense was out of the picture too .
ex-presidents , relieved of accountability for policy , sometimes seem to feel free of accountability for their words .
nobody can deny the right of former chief executives to take part in politics , but the american people expect them always to remember the obligations of national leadership and to treat issues with a sense of responsibility .
mr. eisenhower's new york speech does not encourage respect for that or for his elder statesmanship .
the queen mary has long been a symbol of speed , luxury , and impeccable british service on the high seas .
but the cunard line , influenced by unpleasant economic facts and not sentiment , has decided to keep the queen mary in service until next spring at least .
the british government , concerned about the threat of unemployment in the shipbuilding industry , had put through a bill to give cunard loans and grants totaling $50,400,000 toward the $84,000,000 cost of a new 75,000-ton passenger liner .
economy class fares and charter flights have attracted almost all new passengers to the airlines .
the cunard line has under consideration replacing the queen mary with a ship smaller than 75,000 tons .
also under consideration is an increased investment in cunard eagle airways which has applied to serve new york .
mission to viet nam
gen. taylor will report to president kennedy in a few days on the results of his visit to south viet nam and , judging from some of his remarks to reporters in the far east , he is likely to urge a more efficient mobilization of vietnamese military , economic , political and other resources .
communist guerrillas recently have been reported increasing their activities and the great flood of the mekong river has interposed a new crisis .
the viet cong , the communist rebels , may have lost their stored grain and arms factories .
nothing that is likely to happen , however , should prompt the sending of united states soldiers for other than instructional missions .
it is a war to stay out of today , especially in view of the fact that president ngo dinh diem apparently does not want united states troops .
south viet nam has received $1,450,000,000 in united states aid since 1954 and the rate of assistance has been stepped up since vice president lyndon b. johnson's visit last may .
it is probable that his recommendations will be informed and workable , and that they will not lead to involving the united states in an asian morass .
the u.n.'s ' gravest crisis '
of course it is .
the integrity of the office not merely requires that the secretary general shall be , as the charter puts it , `` the chief administrative officer of the organization '' , but that neither he nor his staff shall seek or receive instructions from any government or any other authority `` external to the organization '' .
he should be , as dag hammarskjold certainly was , a citizen of the world .
the united states and its allies have had no objection to this .
the controversy now revolves mainly around the number and geographic origin of the deputies of the secretary general and , more particularly , around the nature of his relationship with them .
if any one of them has any power to veto the secretary general's decisions the nature of the organization will have changed .
the secretary general must have , subject to the constitutional direction of the security council and the general assembly , the power to act , to propose action and to organize action without being hobbled by advisers and assistants acting on someone else's instructions .
we should not become confused or let our public become confused over irrelevant questions of number or even of geography .
what the new charter does
there is no such magic in man-made laws .
lawmaking power is removed from the board of estimate and made a partnership responsibility of the city council and the mayor .
the board is diminished in both respects , while it retains control over zoning , franchises , pier leases , sale , leasing and assignment of property , and other trusteeship functions .
but the city council will now share fully this budget-altering power .
the controller retains his essential `` fiscal watchdog '' functions ; ;
he loses now-misplaced tax collection duties , which go to the finance department .
borough presidents , while retaining membership in the board of estimate , lose their housekeeping functions .
some fiscal changes are important .
the capital budget , for construction of permanent improvements , becomes an appropriating document instead of just a calendar of pious promises ; ;
a road block to desirable local or borough improvements , heretofore dependent on the pocketbook vote of taxpayers and hence a drag on progress , is removed by making these a charge against the whole city instead of an assessment paid by those immediately affected .
it will also correct some injustices .
inter-american press
the i. a. p. a. is a reflection of the problems and hopes of the hemisphere ; ;
as the press in cuba was gradually throttled by the castro regime , more and more cuban publishers , editors and correspondents were forced into exile .
freedom of the press was lost in cuba because of decades of corruption and social imbalances .
this , in more diplomatic language , is what adlai stevenson told the newspaper men of latin america yesterday on behalf of the united states government .
he sees evidence of fair winds for the ten-year alliance for progress plan with its emphasis on social reforms .
meeting in moscow
according to the original program , premier khrushchev expected the millions looking toward the kremlin this morning to be filled with admiration or rage -- depending upon individual or national politics -- because of the `` bold program for building communism in our time '' which the congress will adopt .
the evident contradiction between the rosy picture of russia's progress painted by the communist party's program and the enormous dangers for all humanity posed by premier khrushchev's berlin policy has already led to speculation abroad that the program may be severely altered .
and there must be many soviet citizens who know what is going on and who realize that before they can hope to enjoy the full life promised for 1980 they and their children must first survive .
the widespread purge that has taken place the past twelve months or so among communist leaders in the provinces gives assurance that the party officials who will dominate the congress , and the central committee it will elect , will all have passed the tightest possible khrushchev screening , both for loyalty to him and for competence and performance on the job .
dr. james b. conant has earned a nationwide reputation as a moderate and unemotional school reformer .
now , a close look at the schools in and around the ten largest cities , including new york , has shattered this optimism .
his new book , entitled `` slums and suburbs '' , calls for fast and drastic action to avert disaster .
his strong opposition to the transfer of negro children to schools outside their own neighborhood , in the interest of integration , will be attacked by negro leaders who have fought for , and achieved , this open or permissive enrollment .
his suggestion that the prestige colleges be made the training institutions for medical , law and graduate schools will run into strong opposition from these colleges themselves -- even though what he is recommending is already taking shape as a trend .
that theme cuts through hypocrisies , complacency and double-talk .
the villains of the piece are those who deny job opportunities to these youngsters , and dr. conant accuses employers and labor unions alike .
a call for action `` before it is too late '' has alarming implications when it comes from a man who , in his previous reports on the schools , cautioned so strongly against extreme measures .
dr. conant's conscientious , selfless efforts deserve the nation's gratitude .
but he may well be doing his greatest service with his straightforward report on the state of the public schools .
a fascinating letter has just reached this desk from a correspondent who likes to receive so-called junk mail .
in accordance with legislation passed at the last session of congress , each representative is authorized to deliver to the post office in bulk newsletters , speeches and other literature to be dropped in every letter box in his district .
our creditors do not forget us
occasional letters are sent by individuals to one another and many are written by companies to one another , but these are mostly typewritten .
old , tired , trembling the woman came to the cannery .
it couldn't close , she said .
she had , with her own work-weary hands , put seeds in the ground , watched them sprout , bud , blossom , and get ready to bear .
she had done it last year , and the year before , and the year before that , and she , and her people were dependent upon these cans for food .
nor in south georgia , where the summer sun shines warmly and gives early life to the things growing in the flat fields .
and now , the woman , tired and trembling , came here to the dekalb county cannery .
o. n. moss , 61 , tall , grey as a possum , canning plant chief since 1946 , didn't know what to say .
he did say he was out of cans , the no. 3's , but `` i requisitioned 22,000 '' .
threat of closing the cannery is a recent one .
reason : the cannery loses $3,000 yearly .
`` the cannery '' , said mrs. lewellyn lundeen , an active booster of the cannery since its opening during the war and rationing years of 1941 , to handle the `` victory garden '' produce , `` is a service to the taxpayer .
it helps those people who help themselves .
a driver of a dairy truck , who begins work at 1 a.m. finishes before breakfast , then goes out and grows a garden , and who has used the cannery to save and feed a family of five , asked , `` what in the world will we do '' ? ?
moss , a man who knows how much the cannery helps the county , doesn't believe it will close .
the young married people ; ;
the dairy truck driver ; ;
`` don't ask me if i think the cannery helps '' , he said .
most of us would be willing to admit that forgiveness comes hard .
there is one thing i know ; ;
i know a man who held resentment against a neighbor for more than three decades .
one night , at the close of the evening service , he came forward , left his resentment at the altar and gave his heart to god .
`` we tried to settle this dispute '' , he said , `` but could never come to an agreement .
`` i leave this church with a feeling that a great weight has been lifted off my heart , i have left my grudge at the altar and forgiven my neighbor '' .
you cannot wear the banner of god and at the same time harbor envy , jealousy and grudges in your heart .
but forgive anyway '' .
we must , first of all , be willing to forgive others before we can secure god's forgiveness .
matthew 6 : 14-15 .
then , jesus indicated that god's forgiveness is unlimited .
when a person meets god's requirements for the experience of forgiveness he is forgiven .
forgiveness implies more than a person wanting his past sins covered by god's love .
we want the past forgiven , but at the same time we must be willing for god to direct the future .
once peter asked , `` how oft shall my brother sin against me , and i forgive him ? ?
jesus saith unto him , until seventy times seven '' .
jesus not only taught forgiveness , he gave us an example of it on the cross .
luke 23:34 .
her mother , now dead , was my good friend and when she came to tell us about her plans and to show off her ring i had a sobering wish to say something meaningful to her , something her mother would wish said .
but when some of the squeals had subsided and she had been through one of those sessions that are so indispensable to the young female -- six girls sprawled on one bed , drinking cokes and giggling -- she came back to the kitchen to talk with me a minute .
she asked .
`` aren't you sure '' ? ?
i wanted to grab her by the arm and beg her to wait , to consider , to know for certain because life is so long and marriage is so important .
besides , in all honesty , i don't know how you can be sure .
in the fevered , intoxicating , breathless state of being in love the usual signposts that guide you to lasting and satisfying relationships are sometimes obscured .
`` does he ever bore you '' ? ?
`` bore me '' ? ?
oh , no-o ! !
`` i mean '' , i went on ruthlessly , `` when he's not talking about you or himself or the wonders of love , is he interesting ? ?
can you visualize being stranded with him on a desert island for years and years and still find him fascinating ? ?
and if you bore each other then , heaven help you .
she has studied and observed and she is convinced that her young man is going to be endlessly enchanting .
be friends with your mother-in-law .
i do not know dr. wilson sneed well .
it was the cry of not just one heart ; ;
the pulpit is a lonely place .
imagine the searching and the prayer that lay behind the letter the rector wrote after almost a decade of service to this majestic church .
a minister should not stay `` beyond the time that his leadership should benefit '' his church , he wrote , `` for he becomes ordinary .
and so the young minister resigned , to go and study and pray , having never passed a day , he told his parishioners , when `` i did not gain from you far more than i ever gave to you '' .
but oh , how i do sometimes need just a moment of rest , and peace , in myself '' .
he does not expect to get great riches or he would not have chosen to answer the call to preach .
theirs is a sacrificial life by earthly standards .
we press him to conform to our comfortable conceptions and not to bruise our satisfactions with his word , and god's .
if we break the minister to our bit , we are buying back our own sins .
and a minister of all men is most conscious that he is mere man -- prone to the stresses that earthly humanity is heir to .
we expect bestowal of god's love through him .
the church truly is not a rest home for saints , but a hospital for sinners .
mr. podger always particularly enjoyed the last night of each summer at loon lake .
the evening was not always spent in the same way .
the little cottage was bursting with people of all ages .
he had that day attended a country auction , and he had come back with a prize .
mrs. podger had obligingly pushed things around on the porch to make room for it , and there it was , slung in a vine-shaded corner , the night breeze rippling its fringe with a slow , caressing movement .
he closed his eyes and let the unintelligible drift of voices sweep pleasantly over him .
`` but '' , it said , `` do you always know when you're happy '' ? ?
here , in the cool , autumn-touched evening , mr. podger mentally retraced a day that had left him greatly contented and at peace .
walking along the lake before breakfast , mr. podger had seen the feather , and the bird that had lost it in flight .
the small shaft of blue had drifted down and come to rest at his feet .
would a blue feather in a man's hat make him happy all day ? ?
but it was something to have seen it floating down through the early morning sunshine , linking the blue of the sky with the blue of the asters by the lake .
and there , on the way , had been the box turtle , that slow , self-contained , world-ignoring relic of pre-history , bent , for reasons best known to itself , on crossing the road .
would the driver see the turtle ? ?
mr. podger took no chances .
the turtle immediately withdrew into its private council room to study the phenomenon .
here in the cool darkness mr. podger could still feel the warmth of midday , could still see the yellow butterflies dancing over the road , could still see the friendly grin on the young , sun-browned face as the driver looked back over his shoulder for a moment before the car streaked out of sight .
what was he doing ? ?
mr. podger smiled .
the three would never meet again , but for some reason or other mr. podger was sure he would always remember the incident .
mr. podger heard again ; ;
`` i like them things , too '' , he had said .
you know what ? ?
i do it , lots o' times -- i like to lie in a hammock at night , by myself , when it's all quiet .
''
as he pulled the fringed sides up and made himself into a cocoon , mr. podger saw that thin , attractive , freckled little face again , and hoped that the boy , too , was lying in a cool , fringed-wrapped quiet .
she remarked that she found the night wind a little chilly , and mr. podger took her inside the fringe .
mr. podger was just adding this to his pictures of the day when the screen door opened and pam burst out .
she said .
we need you to start it .
aren't you happy '' ? ?
`` of course i am '' , he said .
i just came out here to know it '' .
as the south begins another school year , national and even world attention is directed at the region's slow progress toward racial equality in the public schools .
in each city civic and education leaders have been working hard to get public opinion prepared to accept the inevitability of equal treatment .
the programs do not take sides on the issue itself .
the two cities have the examples of little rock and new orleans to hold up as warnings against resorting to violence to try to stop the processes of desegregation .
in each case there was an initial act of violence .
in houston , there were a few incidents of friction between whites and negroes , none of which were serious .
the nashville plan , incidentally , has become recognized as perhaps the most acceptable and thus the most practical to put into effect in the troubled south .
each year another grade is added to the process , until finally all 12 grades are integrated .
the program has worked well in both nashville and houston .
another attempt will be made this year in new orleans to resume the program .
perhaps the most eloquent move toward removal of racial barriers has been in dallas .
it was part of a citywide move toward full integration .
hotels , for example , are ready to let down the bars .
several conventions have been held in recent months in hotels on a nonsegregated basis .
it is also symptomatic of a change in attitude which appears to be spreading all across the south .
they insist they are ashamed of such violence and intimidation as occurred in alabama when the freedom riders sought to break down racial discrimination in local bus depots .
there are many causes for this change .
business leaders are aware now that they suffer greatly from any outbreak of violence .
in the past these same southerners were inclined to look the other way .
this co-operation has emboldened other southern whites to add their voices to demands for peaceable accommodation .
since moving from a chicago suburb to southern california a few months ago , i've been introduced to a new game called lanesmanship .
a driver cruising easily at 70 m.p.h. in lane a of a four-lane freeway spies an incipient traffic jam ahead .
the adjacent driver in lane b has three choices open to him .
( 2 ) slow down and permit the ambivalent driver to change lanes ; ;
the really remarkable thing to me is that most california natives unhesitatingly elect to slow down and permit the invading car free access .
but it is done , consistently and i'm both surprised and impressed .
there such soggy acquiesence would be looked upon as a sure sign of deteriorating manhood .
failing this , he would pull alongside at the first opportunity and shake his fist threateningly .
at the risk of losing my charge-a-plate at marshall field and company , i would like to challenge an old and hallowed stereotype .
during one recent day of driving about los angeles there were actually a dozen occasions when oncoming drivers stopped an entire lane of traffic to permit me to pull out of an impossible side street .
an out-of-town writer came up to paul richards today and asked the oriole manager if he thought his ball club would be improved this year .
he can often make the complex ridiculously simple , and vice versa .
`` it's a whole lot easier '' , he said , `` to increase the population of nevada , than it is to increase the population of new york city '' .
`` that is undoubtedly a hell of a quote '' , said the writer , scratching his head .
two spots open
some brilliant rookies nailed them down , so that this spring just two spots , left and right field , are really up for grabs .
this angle of just where the orioles can look for improvement this year is an interesting one .
obviously , if this club is going to move from second to first in the american league , it will have to show improvement someplace .
you certainly can't expect the infield to do any better than it did last year .
.
you can't expect it , though .
it's the same with ron hansen and jim gentile .
they shouldn't be asked to carry any more of the burden .
he got off to an exceptional start last season , and under the circumstances probably won't duplicate it .
they don't expect to stop him , just slow him down some with the bat .
but they expect to reduce his over-all offensive production .
.
don't ask him more .
but even so , he had a good year in 1960 and won't do too much better .
and the pitching will also have trouble doing better .
where , then , can we look for improvement ? ?
`` they're the ones we can expect to do better '' .
triandos hasn't proved it yet , but he says he's convinced his thumb is all right .
if he can bounce back with one of those 25 home runs years , the club will have to be better off offensively .
hank foiles , backed up by frank house who will be within calling distance in the minors , make up better second line catching than the birds had all last year , but gus is still that big man you need when you start talking pennant .
he hasn't played too much , because richards has been working on him furiously in batting practice .
when he came to baltimore , he was leaving a team which was supposed to win the national league pennant , and he was joining what seemed to be a second division american league club .
as of now , that all seems behind him .
and walker looks stronger , seems to be throwing better than he did last year .
so , if the orioles are to improve , brandt , triandos and walker will have to do it .
of course , this isn't taking into consideration the population of nevada and new york city , but it's the way things look from here at this point .
( the `` autistic '' child is one who seems to lack a well-defined sense of self .
) did his mother make him this way ? ?
we think differently .
a mother can help a child adapt to his difficulties .
but we don't think she creates them .
the mother of a difficult child can do a great deal to help her own child and often , by sharing her experiences , she can help other mothers with the same problem .
she wrote :
`` .
he wants me to do everything for him .
but i do and my psychiatrist does , too .
`` one thing i notice which i have seldom heard mentioned .
when i hold my son he stiffens his whole body in my arms until he is as straight and stiff as a board .
physical contact is uncomfortable for him '' ! !
as a rule , the autistic child doesn't enjoy physical contact with others .
for the young child this may be no more than providing food , light or movement .
or certain words or rituals that child and adult go through may do the trick .
only ingenuity will uncover it .
`` dear doctors : we learned this year that our older son , daniel , is autistic .
fortunately , there is a nursery school which he has been able to attend , with a group of normal children .
what i do is to try to bring him into contact with reality as much as possible .
`` what is your experience with autistic children ? ?
many autistic children grow up to lead relatively normal lives .
single-color use
-- a first grader colors pictures one solid color , everything -- sky , grass , boy , wagon , etc. .
the other children in the class use this same coloring book and do a fairly good job with things their proper color .
she is an aggressive , nervous child .
answer
this immature use of crayons may suggest that she is a little immature for the first grade .
you sometimes give them a little demonstration , a little guidance , and suggestions about staying inside the lines .
seen in decorating circles of late is a renewed interest in an old art : embroidery .
just as a varitinted oriental rug may suggest the starting point for a room scheme , so may some of the newest versions of embroidery .
though not actually crewel embroidery , it has that look with its over-stitched raised pattern in blue , pink , bronze and gold and a sauterne background .
traditional crewel embroidery which seems to be appearing more frequently this fall than in the past few years is still available in this country .
among some recent imports were seat covers for one series of dining room chairs on which were depicted salad plates overflowing with tomatoes and greens and another set on which a pineapple was worked in naturalistic color .
for a particularly fabulous room which houses a collection of fine english chippendale furniture , fabric wall panels were embroidered with a typically chinese-inspired design of this revered eighteenth century period .
modern embroidered panels , framed and meant to be hung on the wall , are another aspect of this trend .
an amateur decorator might try her hand at a pair during the long winter evenings , and , by picking up her living room color scheme , add a decorative do-it-yourself note to the room .
they seem darned proud of it .
their meeting at san francisco is nominally scheduled as a conference of the california democratic council directorate .
out of this session may come : 1
2
3
4
at the head of the cdc is an unorthodox , 39-year-old amateur politico , thomas b. carvey jr. , whose normal profession is helping develop hughes aircraft's moon missiles .
viewed from afar , the cdc looks like a rather stalwart political pyramid : its elected directorate fans out into an array of district leaders and standing committees , and thence into its component clubs and affiliated groups -- 500 or so .
moreover , the entire state democratic hierarchy , from gov. brown on down to the county chairmen , also participates in this huge operation .
carvey believes that reapportionment , which left many democratic clubs split by these new district boundaries , actually will increase cdc membership .
biggest organizational problem , he adds , is setting up cdc units in rock-ribbed democratic territory .
like most democratic spokesmen , carvey predicts 1962 will be a tremendously `` partisan year '' .
in all probability , the council will screen and endorse candidates for the assembly and for congress , and then strive to put its full weight behind these pre-primary favorites .
naturally , the statewide races will provide the major test for the expanding council .
there is evidence that it will be happily received by gov. brown and the other constitutional incumbents .
but the rest of the gop gubernatorial aspirants don't worry him very much .
( significantly , bitter echoes of the 1960 power struggle that saw mosk moving into the national committee post over ziffren are still audible in party circles .
note : we've just received an announcement of the 54th assembly district post-reapportionment organizing convention wednesday night in south pasadena's war memorial bldg. , which graphically illustrates the cdc's broad appeal .
state and county committeemen , cdc directors and representatives , members of 16 area clubs , and `` all residents '' have been invited .
it is a short course in communese .
once you learn how to translate communese , much of each day's deluge of news will become clearer .
for some compulsive reason which would have fascinated dr. freud , communists of all shapes and sizes almost invariably impute to others the very motives which they harbor themselves .
president kennedy's latest warning to the communist world that the united states will build up its military strength to meet any challenge in berlin or elsewhere was , somewhat surprisingly , reported in full text or fairly accurate excerpts behind the iron curtain .
now listen closely :
`` president kennedy once again interpreted the soviet proposals , to sign a peace treaty with germany as a threat , as part of the world menace allegedly looming over the countries of capitalism .
the west berlin crisis is being played up artificially because it is needed by the united states to justify its arms drive '' .
`` president kennedy's enlargement of the american military program was welcomed on wall street as a stimulus to the american munitions industry .
over 4 million shares were sold , the highest figures since early june .
)
`` former vice president nixon came out in support of president kennedy's program for stepping up the arms race .
tass from moscow in english to europe :
in fact , the world heard nothing but sabre-rattling , the same exercises which proved futile for the predecessors of the current president .
washington apparently decided to use an old formula , by injecting large military appropriations to speed the slow revival of the u.s. economy after a prolonged slump '' .
moscow radio in russian to the ussr :
as was to be expected kennedy's latest speech was greeted with enthusiasm by revenge-seeking circles in bonn , where officials of the west german government praised it '' .
`` u.s. pressure on britain to foster war hysteria over the status of west berlin has reached its apogee .
the present attempts of the politicians to contaminate ordinary britons shows that this british common sense is unwilling to pull somebody else's chestnuts out of the fire by new military adventures '' .
`` a better position for negotiations is the real point of this speech .
whenever some washington circles were really ready for talks to eliminate friction they have always succumbed to pressure from the war clique in the pentagon and in bonn .
well , dear listeners , despite all the shouting , there will be no war over west berlin '' .
`` chairman khrushchev received the u.s. president's disarmament adviser , john mccloy .
now , to translate from the communese , this means :
the crisis was artificially stirred up by the kremlin ( wall street ) and the red army ( pentagon ) egged on by the west germans ( east germans ) .
chairman khrushchev ( kennedy ) rattles his rockets ( sabre ) in order to cure his internal ills and to strengthen his negotiating position .
the soviet union will fight neither a conventional nor a nuclear war over berlin , and neither will its warsaw pact allies .
chairman khrushchev and john mccloy had a terrible row at sochi .
aug. 4 , 1821 , nearly a century after benjamin franklin founded the pennsylvania gazette -- a century during which it had undergone several changes in ownership and a few brief suspensions in publication -- this paper made its first appearance as the saturday evening post .
when founded by franklin the gazette was a weekly family newspaper and under its new name its format remained that of a newspaper but its columns gradually contained more and more fiction , poetry , and literary essays .
but during the second half of the century its fortunes reached a low point and when in 1897 cyrus h. k. curtis purchased it -- `` paper , type , and all '' -- for $1,000 it was a 16-page weekly filled with unsigned fiction and initialed miscellany , and with only some 2,000 subscribers .
but curtis poured over $1 million into it and in time it again became one of the most popular weeklies of the country .
`` remember the night will rogers filled a tooth for me between numbers '' ? ?
all this remembering took place the other night when i had supper with the ziegfeld girls at the beverly hills club .
but watching mrs. cyril ring , berniece dalton janssen , mrs. robert jarvis , mrs. walter adams order low-calorie seafood , no bread , i could see the ziegfeld girls of 1920 were determined to be glamorous grandmothers of 1961 .
all i could remember was billie dove pasted over the ceiling of my big brother's room .
exclaimed vera forbes adams , batting lovely big eyes behind glitter rimmed glasses .
but once the strike trend hits hoosegows , there is no telling how far it may go .
some day we might see a federation of prison and jail inmates , with a leader busily trying to organize reformatory occupants , defendants out on bail , convicts opposed to probation officers , etc. .
wider space between iron bars and agreement by prison boards to substitute rubber in 20 per cent of metal .
an agreement allowing convicts to pass on type of locks used on prison doors .
3 .
4 .
5 .
6 .
7 .
the death of harold a. stevens , oldest of the stevens brothers , famed operators of baseball , football and race track concessions , revived again the story of one of the greatest business successes in history .
family loyalties and cooperative work have been unbroken for generations .
nevertheless , it will seem funny to have to send for a mechanic to improve conversation .
both aristotle and homer may in spirit be contemplating `` bust '' of the old-fashioned american dollar .
apologies are in order from anybody who said , `` are you sure you're not making a mistake '' ? ?
after all , where else can the public see a wagon these days ? ?
beebe tells of one private car that has gold plumbing .
washington
not only is mr. frelinghuysen a member of the house foreign affairs committee , but he is the grandson of the man who was instrumental in opening relations between the united states and korea , frederick t. frelinghuysen , secretary of state in the administration of chester a. arthur .
next year is the 80th anniversary of the signing of the treaty between korea and the united states and experts in seoul are trying to find the correspondence between frederick frelinghuysen , who was secretary of state in 1883 and 1884 , and gen. lucius foote , who was the first minister to korea .
on the job
in his first six weeks in office he presided over 96 conferences , attended 35 official breakfasts and dinners , studied and signed 285 official papers and personally took 312 telephone calls .
sen. case aj , has received a nice `` thank you '' note from a youngster he appointed to the air force academy in colorado .
he invited mr. case to stop by to say hello if he ever visited the academy and then added that he was on the managerial staff of the freshman football team
`` we have a tremendous amount of talent -- but we lack cohesion '' .
among the many stories about the late speaker rayburn is one from rep. dwyer , r-6th dist. .
they ran across mr. rayburn and the youngster expressed a desire to get the speaker's autograph .
two days later mr. rayburn left washington for the last time .
since it was issued in the spring of 1611 , the king james version has been most generally considered the most poetic and beautiful of all translations of the bible .
this resulted in revisions of the king james bible in 1881-85 as the english revised version and in 1901 as the american standard version .
undertaken by 32 american scholars , under the chairmanship of rev. dr. luther a. weigle , former dean of yale university divinity school , their studies resulted in the publishing of the revised standard version , 1946-52 .
the new english bible ( the old testament and apocrypha will be published at a future date ) has not been planned to rival or replace the king james version , but , as its cover states , it is offered `` simply as the bible to all those who will use it in reading , teaching , or worship '' .
bible reading , even more so than good classical music , grows in depth and meaning upon repetition .
however , an initial perusal and comparison of some of the famous passages with the same parts of other versions seems to speak well of the efforts of the british biblical scholars .
for example , in the third chapter of matthew , verses 13-16 , describing the baptism of jesus , the 1611 version reads :
`` but john forbad him , saying , i have need to be baptized of thee , and comest thou to me ? ?
then he suffered him .
clearer meaning
john tried to dissuade him .
he said ; ;
jesus replied , ' let it be so for the present ; ;
john then allowed him to come .
he saw the spirit of god descending like a dove to alight upon him '' ; ;
)
to illustrate , the first blessing in the king james bible reads : `` blessed are the poor in spirit ; ;
the new version states : `` how blest are those who know that they are poor ; ;
some of the poetic cadence of the older version certainly is lost in the newer one , but almost anyone , with a fair knowledge of the english language , can understand the meaning , without the necessity of interpretation by a biblical scholar .
in the second and third chapters of revelation the new version retains , however , the old phrase `` angel of the church '' which biblical scholars have previously interpreted as meaning bishop .
mostly contemporary
originally recorded by hand , these words have been copied and recopied , translated and retranslated through the ages .
to have the results recorded in everyday usable english should be of benefit to all who seek the truth .
with contemporary english changing with the rapidity that marks this jet age , some of the words and phrases of the new version may themselves soon become archaic .
the new testament offered to the public today is the first result of the work of a joint committee made up of representatives of the church of england , church of scotland , methodist church , congregational union , baptist union , presbyterian church of england , churches in wales , churches in ireland , society of friends , british and foreign bible society and national society of scotland .
sizzling temperatures and hot summer pavements are anything but kind to the feet .
there are many soft and light shoe leathers available .
softness is found in crushed textures .
heels place emphasis on the long legged silhouette .
stacked heels are also popular on dressy or tailored shoes .
coolest shade
in the tintable group are high and little heels , squared and oval throats , and shantung-like textures .
they come in crisp basket weaves in natural honey hues , along with lacey open weaves with a lustre finish in natural , white , black and a whole range of colors .
for added comfort some of the italian designed sandals have foam padded cushioning .
orange and lemon are considered important as are such pastels as blue and lilac .
contrast trim provides other touches of color .
designed for ease
at the left is a pair of dressy straw pumps in a light , but crisp texture .
at right is a casual style in a crushed unlined white leather .
an electric toothbrush ( broxodent ) may soon take its place next to the electric razor in the american bathroom .
in addition , the motor has the seal of approval of the underwriters laboratories , which means it is safe .
the speed is controlled by pressing on the two brake buttons located where the index finger and thumb are placed when holding the motor .
most of us brush our teeth by hand .
the electric toothbrush moves in a vertical direction , the way dentists recommend .
the bristles are soft enough to massage the gums and not scratch the enamel .
several dentists and patients with special dental problems have experimented with the device .
the electric gadget is most helpful when there are many crowned teeth and in individuals who are elderly , bedfast with a chronic disease , or are handicapped by disorders such as cerebral palsy or muscular dystrophy .
it is not as convenient as the old type toothbrush and the paste tends to shimmy off the bristles .
turn over
reply :
this is a common symptom and the cause usually is pressure on the nerve leading to the affected hand .
steam baths
reply :
an ordinary hot bath or shower will do the same .
writes : what makes my hands numb when sewing ? ?
there are many possibilities , including poor circulation , a variety of neurological conditions , and functional disorders .
brace for sciatica
reply :
cholesterol and thyroid
reply :
it usually goes up .
it is low when the thyroid is overactive and high when the gland is sluggish .
the gap between the bookshelf and the record cabinet grows smaller with each new recording catalogue .
edison could hardly have guessed , however , that sophocles would one day appear in stereo .
and he will avoid eye-strain in the process .
for sheer ambition , take the decca series titled modestly `` wisdom '' .
these sages include poet carl sandburg , statesman jawaharlal nehru and sculptor jacques lipchitz , in volume one , and playwright sean o'casey , david ben-gurion , philosopher bertrand russell and the late frank lloyd wright in the second set .
there's more specialization and a narrower purpose in two albums recently issued by dover publications .
previous presentations have been on french , spanish , russian , italian , german and japanese .
the respective vocabularies `` essential for travel '' are available in separate albums .
as a contemporary bonus , the set includes carl sandburg's address at a joint session of congress , delivered on lincoln's birthday two years ago .
the program was instituted in 1940 , and releases are available only from the recording laboratory of the library of congress , washington 25 , d.c. .
newest on the list are john ciardi , w. d. snodgrass , i. a. richards , oscar williams , robert hillyer , john hall wheelock , stephen vincent benet , edwin muir , john peal bishop and maxwell bodenheim .
decca is not the only large commercial company to impart instruction .
howard mitchell and the national symphony perform in the first two releases , designed for grades one and two .
in an effort to fortify himself against the unforseen upsets sure to arise in the future , herbert a. leggett , banker-editor of the phoenix `` arizona progress '' , reflects upon a few of the depressing experiences of the feverish fifties .
though it was a great relief when the big brains on these shows turned out to be frauds and phonies , it did irreparable damage to the ego of the editor and many another intelligent , well-informed american .
every man who dabbles in the market to make a little easy money on the side and suffers losses could at the time hardly face his wife who was wondering how her husband could be so dumb .
people who take us for suckers are like the westerner who had on exhibit his superior marksmanship in the form of a number of bull's-eye achievements .
his answer was simple but honest .
one of the obstacles to the easy control of a 2-year-old child is a lack of verbal communication .
he senses his mother's disapproval .
if his mother loves him , he clings to that love as a ballast .
he wants mommy to think him a good boy .
this breaks his heart .
but even mother's loving attitude will not always prevent misbehavior .
his own inner voice , which should tell him what not to do , has not developed .
the conscience is non-existent in the 2-year-old .
she can decrease the number of temptations .
the fewer nos she has to utter the more effective they will be .
if he can't play with mommy's magazines , he should have some old numbers of his own .
toys he has can be made to act as substitutes for family temptations such as refrigerator and gas stove .
she tells him of the consequences of his behavior .
if he snatches a toy , she says , `` caroline wants her own truck just as you do '' .
actions speak louder .
remove the child from the scene of his misbehavior .
he won't submit to his natural desires all the time , and it's mother's love that is responsible for his good behavior .
they seek thereby to lure the old grad back to the old scenes .
it is true , of course , the uncertainties of life being what they are , that as now and then the christian killed the lion , homecoming days have been ruined by a visiting team .
more often than not , as the old grad wanders along the old paths , his memory of happy days when he strolled one of the paths with a coed beside him becomes an ache and a pain .
undergraduates
usually , they titter loudly after they have passed by .
he feels , suddenly , the weight of the fat that is on him .
his bifocals blur .
bitterness comes over him and the taste of time is like unripe persimmons in his mouth .
too often , unless he hails them , they pass him by .
if they do meet and recognize one another , slap backs and embrace , the moment soon is done .
middle-aged spread
the gray hairs , the eyeglasses , bodies that are too thin or too heavy ; ;
the athlete of by-gone years who wears a size 46 suit and puffs when he has finished a sentence of any length then , it is time to break it up and move on .
he sits in the stands and he doesn't like that .
he always feels lonely .
on a team a man feels he is a part of it and akin to the men next to him .
he sits there remembering the tense moment before the ball was snapped ; ;
the smell and feel of hot , wet woolen sleeves across his face .
the long runs on the kick-offs ; ;
the breakthrough ; ;
and so , he squirms with each play , remembering his youth .
it is gone .
since the obvious is not always true , the republican national committee wisely analyzed its defeat of last autumn and finds that it occurred , as suspected , in the larger cities .
there are eight states in which the largest urban vote can be the balance of power in any close election .
in 1952 mr. eisenhower won all but missouri .
republican research broke down the vote in philadelphia .
his visit to warsaw , poland , after the russian journey in the summer of 1959 was expected to win the polish vote which , in several cities , is substantial .
30 per cent of the `` irish '' vote , and 18 per cent of the `` negro '' vote .
a gop `` task force ' committee will seek to find out how its party may win support from the ethnic and minority groups in cities .
these gentlemen already have done the party harm by their seeming reluctance to vote aid for the depressed areas and by their criticism of mr. kennedy for talking about a recession and unemployment .
the almost six million persons without jobs and the two million working part-time do not consider themselves and their plight as statistical .
the people visited were glad to have a government with heart enough to take an interest in their misery .
if the republicans and southern democrats join to defeat medical care for the old under the social security program , they will thereby erect still another barrier to gop hopes in the cities .
the present republican leadership as practiced by mundt , goldwater , bridges , dirksen , et al , is repeating the errors of the party leadership of the 1930s .
the republican party was not lacking in humanity , but it permitted its extremely partisan leadership to make it appear devoid of any consideration for people in trouble .
smokers reduced to `` the makings '' , spoke of the sack tobacco as `` hoover dust '' .
but it is in the process of so doing because it apparently gives priority to trying to downgrade john f. kennedy .
the most articulate republicans are those who , in their desire to get back at mr. kennedy , already have created the image of a republican leadership which is reluctant to assist the distressed and the unemployed , and which is even more unwilling to help old people who need medical care .
it will early know why the party won't win back city votes .
the tragedy is that it will not be able to transact that business in any responsible manner .
every legislator from brasstown bald to folkston is going to have his every vote subjected to the closest scrutiny as a test of his political allegiances , not his convictions .
and just how far can the legislature go toward setting up a self-insurance system for the state in the midst of a governor's race '' ? ?
the situation already was bad because the legislature moved the governor's race forward a few months , causing the campaigning to get started earlier than usual .
neither had a choice other than to accept the invitation .
and it may be that one or both men actually welcomed the opportunity , when the bravado comments are cast aside .
it wanted the state democratic executive committee to pick the `` serious candidates '' .
`` they are just asking too much '' , he said .
there are other dangers :
`` if an opponent accuses you of lying , don't deny it .
these men are spenders .
griffin's rural roads authority and byrd's 60,000 miles of county contracts would look like pauper's oaths .
why not have them travel the state in november debating ? ?
but further thought brings the shuddery visions of a governor's race being run in the next legislature , the spectre of big spending programs , the ooze of mudslinging before the campaign should even begin .
the chamber has not arranged a pre-legislative forum .
if it will simply delay the debates until the qualifications are closed next spring , and then carry all the candidates on a tour of debates , it can provide a service to the state .
former british prime minister attlee says eisenhower was not a `` great soldier '' .
both won a pretty fair-sized war with a modest assist from british strategy .
slogan of the john birch society : `` paddle your own canoe .
a republican survey says kennedy won the '60 election on the religious issue .
the providence journal editorial ( jan. 25 ) entitled `` east greenwich faces a housing development problem '' points to a dilemma that faces communities such as ours .
first of all there is ample area in east greenwich already zoned in the classification similar to that which petitioner requested .
the demand for these lots can be met for some time to come .
what we are attempting to do is achieve and maintain a balance between medium density and low density residential areas and industrial and commercial development .
bostitch , inc. is approximately half way through a 10-year exemption of their real estate tax .
the 1960 tax book for east greenwich indicates a valuation for this property in excess of two million dollars .
in order to attract additional industry that is compatible with this community it is all the more important to present to the industrial prospect an orderly balance in the tax structure .
mr. richard preston , executive director of the new hampshire state planning and development commission , in his remarks to the governors conference on industrial development at providence on october 8 , 1960 , warned against the fallacy of attempting to attract industry solely to reduce the tax rate or to underwrite municipal services such as schools when he said : `` if this is the fundamental reason for a community's interest or if this is the basic approach , success if any will be difficult to obtain '' .
it is not in business for the purpose of absorbing increased municipal costs no matter how high a purpose that may be '' .
we in east greenwich have the example of two neighboring communities , one currently utilizing double sessions in their schools , and the other facing this prospect next year .
if they are to be commended for foresight in their planning , what then is the judgment of a town council that compounds this problem during the planning stage ? ?
i submit that it cannot be dismissed simply by saying we are not facing the facts of life .
for example : 1 .
2 .
3 .
4 .
5 .
6 .
7 .
i feel compelled to write this because i am greatly concerned with the problem of community growth rate and the relation between types of growth in a town such as east greenwich .
and yet they cannot ignore this problem because it concerns the implementation of nearly all the planning programs they have devised .
we have far less to fear in the migrant family than we have in the migrant developer under these conditions .
i would like very much , on behalf of my husband and myself , to send our eternal thanks to all the wonderful people responsible for the gabrielle fund .
every man is a piece of the continent , a part of the main '' .
rev. dewitt clemens , pastor of the mathewson street methodist church ; ;
and to mrs. rozella switzer , regional director of the national conference of christians and jews , who asked them to serve as a committee for the fund .
bless you my friends , for it is through love and service that brotherhood becomes a reality .
my future plans are to become a language teacher .
a few weeks ago , i read in the bulletin that there were to be given chinese classes in cranston .
the following week , i read in the sunday paper that the students of russia begin european and asian languages in the seventh grade .
if russian pupils have to take these languages , how come american students have a choice whether or not to take a language , but have to face so many exceptions ? ?
i am proud of my country , the small city i live in , my wonderful parents , my friends and my school ; ;
then people wonder why russian pupils are more advanced than american students .
at the height of the first snowstorm we had , it was impossible for me to get medical attention needed during an emergency .
words cannot tell of the undivided attention and comfort their service gave to me .
the rescue squad is to be praised immensely for the fine work they do in all kinds of weather .
many thanks for a job well done .
usually a veteran has to hang himself to get space on the front page .
it can manifest itself before discharge from service , or it can come out years later .
no psychiatrist could tell me that the experience in a war can not have its effect in the ensuing years .
i believe in priority for service-connected disabled veterans in admission to va hospitals .
this matter is of great importance , and the outcome may mean the difference between life or death , or at least serious injuries , for many veterans .
there's a reason for this length of stay .
he has no experience with this veteran's previous medical record .
as a result , it takes a little longer than it would on the outside where the family physician knows about the patient .
so he keeps the veteran in until he can observe the effects of treatment or surgery .
the public should understand that whether they support a state hospital or a va hospital , the tax dollar has to be paid one way or the other .
an adequate system of va hospitals is better equipped to care for the veterans than any 50 state hospitals .
the american medical association is once again grinding out its tear-soaked propaganda based upon the high cost of the veterans administration medical program to the american taxpayer .
we veterans acknowledge the fact that as time passes the demand for medical care at va hospitals will grow proportionately as age fosters illness .
they opposed the forand bill , which would have placed the major burden of financial support upon the individual himself through compulsory payroll deduction ; ;
`` a lousy job ''
-- no doubt there have been moments during every presidency when the man in the white house has had feelings of frustration , exasperation , exhaustion , and even panic .
but no president ever before referred to his as a `` lousy job '' ( as walter trohan recently quoted president kennedy as doing in conversation with sen. barry goldwater ) .
what does he think a remark like this `` lousy '' one does to our prestige and morale ? ?
questions shelters
-- defense secretary robert s. mcnamara has asked congress for authority and funds to build fallout shelters costing about 200 million dollars .
top scientists have warned that an area hit by an atomic missile of massive power would be engulfed in a suffocating fire storm which would persist for a long time .
this sum spent for foreign economic aid , the peace corps , food for peace , or any other program to solve the problems of the underdeveloped countries would be an investment that would pay off in world peace , increased world trade , and prosperity for every country on the globe .
short shorts on the campus
-- it seems college isn't what it should be .
upon a visit to a local junior college last week , i was shocked to see the young ladies wearing short shorts and the young men wearing bermuda shorts .
education should be uppermost in their minds , but with this attire how can anyone think it is so ? ?
high school students have more sense of the way to dress than college students .
no matter how hot the day , they are dressed properly and not in shorts .
chicago , aug. 9
douglas has consistently voted to aid the people who killed masaryk , and against principles masaryk died to uphold .
subsidies from cta
-- in today's `` voice '' , the cta is urged to reduce fares for senior citizens .
but why is it the special responsibility of the cta to help these people ? ?
the welfare of citizens , old and young , is the responsibility of the community , not only of that part of it that rides the aj .
marketing meat
-- in reply to a letter in today's `` voice '' urging the sale of meat after 6 p.m. , i wish to state the other side of the story .
my husband's hours away from home for the past years have been from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. the early part of the week , and as late as 8 or 9 on week-ends .
there is a trend to packaging meat at a central source , freezing it , and shipping it to outlying stores , where meat cutters will not be required .
we are slowly being regimented to having everything packaged , whether we want it or not .
also , many working wives have children or husbands who take over the shopping chores for them .
and my husband hasn't had a vacation in 14 years .
but if we closed the store for a vacation , we would lose our customers to the chain stores in the next block .
what it is trying to do is to protect the little man , too , as well as trying to maintain a flow of fresh meat to all stores , with choice of cut being made by the consumer , not the store .
chicago , aug. 9
i regret that bertha madeira ( today's `` voice '' ) obtained incorrect information .
the resolution under discussion at the convention was to require the boards of election to instruct judges to properly display the american flag .
the resolution further asked that polling place proprietors affix an attachment to their premises for the display of the flag .
my discussion with reference to the resolution was that we should commend those citizens who serve as judges of election and who properly discharge their duty and polling place proprietors who make available their private premises , and not by innuendo criticize them .
teaching the handicapped
-- the illinois commission for handicapped children wishes to commend the recent announcement by the catholic charities of the archdiocese of chicago and depaul university of the establishment of the institute for special education at the university for the training of teachers for physically handicapped and mentally retarded children .
the illinois commission for handicapped children , which for 20 years has had the responsibility of coordinating the services of tax supported and voluntary organizations serving handicapped children , of studying the needs of handicapped children in illinois , and of promoting more adequate services for them , indeed welcomes this new important resource which will help the people of illinois toward the goal of providing an education for all of its children .
minneapolis , aug. 7
please do put more pictures and articles in about liberace , as he is truly one of our greatest entertainers and a really wonderful person .
chicago , aug. 7
engineering graduates of illinois institute of technology are reported receiving the highest average starting salaries in the school's history -- $550 a month .
at a rate of $3.22 an hour he is now earning approximately $580 a month .
the dupont case
washington , aug. 4
as a result , your criticism of attorney general robert f. kennedy and the department of justice was inaccurate , unwarranted and unfair .
these proposals would reduce the amount of tax that dupont stockholders might have to pay -- from an estimated 1.1 billion dollars under present law to as little as 192 million dollars .
the attorney general responded by letter dated july 19 .
in this letter , mr. kennedy made it clear that he limited his comment only to one consideration -- what effect the legislative proposals might have on future anti-trust judgments .
yet your editorial said : `` now the attorney general writes that no considerations ' justify any loss of revenue of this proportion ' '' .
the editorial , by omitting the words anti-trust enforcement , totally distorted mr. kennedy's views .
congresswoman church
-- i concur most heartily with today's letter on the futility of writing to sen. dirksen and sen. douglas .
should she disagree , she explains why in detail .
i think we have the hardest working , best representative in congress .
downers grove , aug. 8
they do our country great harm by such actions .
the plane should have started at the scheduled time and left sinatra and martin to guzzle .
providence , aug. 5
in covert socialism -- toward which america is moving -- private enterprise retains the ownership title to industries but government thru direct intervention and excessive regulations actually controls them .
this is a step toward overt socialism .
`` workers of the party ''
sir -- we are writing in reference to a recent `` suggestion '' made to the staff of the public health nursing service of jersey city ( registered professional nurses with college background and varying experiences ) .
being ethical and professional people interested in community health and well-being , we felt this wasn't a function of our position .
as we understand , this directive was given to all city and county employes .
we , therefore , considered the `` suggestion '' an insult to our intelligence , ethics , bill of rights , etc. .
this is our duty -- not as nurses or city employes -- but as citizens of the united states .
to the editor :
does this man live in a neighborhood where all are free loaders unwilling to help themselves , but ready to demand that `` the community '' help and protect them ? ?
if in a town of 2,000 private homes , half of them have shelters , the need for the community shelters will be reduced to that extent .
i hope the man who plans to sit on his hands until the emergency comes will have a change of heart , will get busy and be the first member of our `` plus-one '' shelter club .
to the editor :
it's simple enough from my point of view .
it is the only method left for a man to escape from a woman's world .
to the editor :
it is high time the united states began to realize that the god-given rights of men set forth in that document are applicable today to katanga .
this , again , applies to katanga .
by political , economic , geographic and natural standards , they were justified in doing so .
county college costs
sir -- permit me to commend your editorial in which you stress the fact that a program of county colleges will substantially increase local tax burdens and that taxpayers have a right to a clear idea of what such a program would commit them to .
the procedure for determining the amounts of money to be spent by county colleges and raised by taxation will certainly startle many taxpayers .
none will be elected .
this board will consist of two of the trustees of the college , and the director and two members of the board of freeholders .
the approval of only three members of the board of school estimate is required to certify the amount of money to be allotted to the college .
this is taxation without representation .
to the editor :
the very rules and regulations in every city are the primary case of slum conditions .
then see what a boom in all trades , as well as slum clearance at no cost to taxpayers , will happen .
`` natural causes ''
sir -- an old man is kicked to death by muggers .
i once heard a comedian say that if you are killed by a taxicab in new york , it is listed as `` death due to natural causes '' .
to the editor :
it will be at the museum until march 30 .
it shows what a beautiful city newark will become and certainly make every newarker proud of this city .
parkway courtesy
sir -- i hasten to join in praise of the men in the toll booths on the garden state parkway .
one even gave my little dog a biscuit .
`` deep peep show ''
twenty feet below the street level in the excavation of the new motel to be constructed on this site , a black coal-like deposit has been encountered .
the fossilized remains of many of these trees are found embedded in the clay .
although the wood has been changed to coal , much of it still retains its original cell structure .
these microfossils indicate the swamp was `` formed during the lower cretaceous period when dinosaurs were at their heyday and when the first flowering plants were just appearing .
working for peace
while i respect his sincere concern for peace , he made four points that i would like to question .
i would ask , `` why not do both '' ? ?
war is the result of mistrust and lack of understanding between people .
2 .
is this a reason for saving no one ? ?
3 .
if the world comes to this , wouldn't it be the very time when courage and american know-how would be needed to help survivors rebuild ? ?
4 .
in 1950 , public law 920 created civil defense ( different from civilian-groups of world war 2 ) , a responsibility of the government at all levels to help reduce loss of life and property in disaster , natural or manmade .
civil defense has far to go and many problems to solve , but is it not in the best spirit of our pioneer tradition to be not only willing , but prepared to care for our own families and help our neighbors in any disaster -- storm , flood , accident or even war ? ?
it seems rather peculiar that residents of apartments are denied the right of providing themselves with the protection and companionship of dogs .
in addition , would not the young female public of washington be afforded a greater degree of protection at night when they are on the streets if they were accompanied by a dog on a leash ? ?
i would like to suggest that the landlords and commissioners get together and consider liberalizing the practice of prohibiting dogs in apartments .
use the terraces of the capitol for a sidewalk cafe ? ?
is nothing in this country more sacred than the tourists' comfort ? ?
the lincoln and jefferson memorials are rather bleak .
unfortunately the cafes might not make enough money to support themselves during the off season .
it is visible throughout the city , and men from madison ave. would jump at the chance .
he , like most of us , wants to be able to sit , to contemplate and be moved by the great outdoors .
let us , like the french , have outdoor cafes where we may relax , converse at leisure and enjoy the passing crowd .
two strong dissents from the majority report of the joint economic committee ( may 2 ) by senators proxmire and butler allege that the new deal fiscal policy of the thirties did not work .
soviets said to fear resurgence of german militarism
for the first time in history the entire world is dominated by two large , powerful nations armed with murderous nuclear weapons that make conventional warfare of the past a nullity .
recent statements by well-known scientists regarding the destructive power of the newest nuclear bombs and the deadly fall-outs should be sufficient to still the voices of those who advocate nuclear warfare instead of negotiations .
i have just returned from a seven-week trip to europe and the far east .
the fact is that the italians , french and british know that they have no defense against nuclear bombs .
we should stand firmly and courageously for our right to free access into berlin .
but there is nothing we can do to stop soviet russia from granting de facto recognition to east germany .
in the last war russia lost more than ten million killed and its lands and factories were devastated .
the truth is that communist russia fears the resurgence of german militarism .
actually , the communists , out of fear of a united and armed germany , would probably be willing to agree to a disarmed germany that would be united and neutral and have its independence guaranteed by the u.n. .
it could provide security without cost of armaments and increase german prosperity and lessen taxation .
if the german people favor such a settlement we should not oppose germany following the example of austria .
why not make a beginning with a united and disarmed germany whose neutrality and immunity from nuclear bombing would be guaranteed by the big four powers and the united states ? ?
meeting u.n. obligations
in your editorial of sept. 30 `` the smoldering congo '' you make the following comment : `` far too many states are following the russian example in refusing to pay their assessments .
they are violating their charter obligation , the prescribed penalty for which is suspension of membership or expulsion '' .
`` article 17 , section 1 : :
`` section 2 : :
`` article 19 : :
the u.s.s.r. and her followers are careful in paying their obligations to the regular budget .
according to the official interpretation of the charter , a member cannot be penalized by not having the right to vote in the general assembly for nonpayment of financial obligations to the `` special '' united nations' budgets , and of course cannot be expelled from the organization ( which you suggested in your editorial ) , due to the fact that there is no provision in the charter for expulsion .
connally amendment's repeal held step toward world order
in your sept. 27 editorial appraisal of the work of the first session of the eighty-seventh congress you referred to the lack of `` consciousness of destiny in a time of acute national and world peril '' .
the connally amendment says that the united states , rather than the court , shall determine whether a matter is essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of the united states in a case before the world court to which the united states is a party .
since the connally amendment has the effect of giving the same right to the other party to a dispute with the united states , it also prevents us from using the court effectively .
our `` destiny '' in these perilous times should be to lead strongly in the pursuit of peace , with justice , under law .
what better affirmative step could be taken to this end than repeal of the connally amendment -- an act which could expose the united states to no practical risk yet would put an end to our self-judging attitude toward the court , enable us to utilize it , and advance in a tangible way the cause of international law and order ? ?
for better subway services
many home-bound subway riders utilizing the flushing-main street express are daily confronted with the sight of the local departing from the woodside station as their express comes to a stop , leaving them stranded and strained .
the transit authority has recently placed in operation `` hold '' lights at bmt thirty-ninth and fifty-ninth street stations in brooklyn .
without question , this time and temper saver should be immediately installed at the woodside station .
to the editor of the new york times :
in the last few years the telephone company has managed to automate many areas of their service .
however , there are still several types of calls that necessitate the use of telephone operators .
either it is lack of training , lack of proper screening when hiring , lack of management or possibly lack of interest on the part of the telephone company , which does have a government-blessed monopoly .
to the editor :
the funeral for my husband was just what i wanted and i paid a fair price , far less than i had expected to pay .
helping retarded children
recently i visited the very remarkable pilgrim school for retarded children .
there is no charge and no state aid .
there are 70 children there and the mothers donate one day a week to the school .
they make beautiful objects .
southfield schools furnish an old 45-passenger bus ( the heater in which needs repair since some of the children ride a long distance and need the heat ) .
visitors are welcome to come see what these dedicated mothers can do .
to the editor :
maybe he can clean out the white elephants in some of the city departments such as welfare , dpw and sanitation .
he should put the police back to patrolling and walking the streets at night .
our litterbug ordinances are not enforced and i have yet to read of a conviction in a littering case .
educate the city employes to give real service to the public .
church finds news features are helpful
at a recent meeting of the women's association of the trumbull ave. united presbyterian church , considerable use was made of material from the detroit news on the king james version of the new testament versus the new english bible .
we feel that the detroit news is to be complimented upon arranging for articles on these subjects and we hope that it will continue to provide material along wholesome lines .
to the editor :
how old do you have to be to remember when americans , especially children , were encouraged to be polite ? ?
how can we old-fashioned parents , who still feel that adults are due some respect from children , battle the new type of advertising that appears on tv without denying the children the use of television entirely ? ?
from necessity , they are also inspired by the `` hard-sell '' attitude of the sponsor , so , finally , it is the sponsor who must take the responsibility for the good or bad taste of his advertising .
to the editor :
ghost town ? ?
i just wish to congratulate inspector trimmer and his efficient police troops in cleaning the city of those horrible automobiles .
good for mr. trimmer .
defends big trucks
i worked on the schuylkill expressway and if it had not been for the big trucks carrying rock and concrete there wouldn't be an expressway .
mr. george hough ( oct. 30 ) sounds like a business man who waits until the last minute to leave his home or shop .
they try to keep within the speed limits .
out of school at 14
the letter writer who suggested saving money by taking kids out of school at 14 should have signed his letter `` simpleton '' instead of `` simplicitude '' .
there are lots of jobs available for trained high school graduates , but not for the dropouts .
two wrongs
i suppose i am missing some elementary point but i honestly cannot see how two wrongs can make a right ! !
will our bombs be cleaner or will their fallout be less harmful to future generations of children ? ?
as i see it , if war starts and we survive the initial attack enough to be able to fight back , the nuclear weapons we now have -- at least the bombs -- can inflict all the demage that is necessary .
i repeat , two wrongs do not make a right .
to the editor of the inquirer :
especially the first half of the third verse :
to the editor of the inquirer :
having led the world in this mad race i pray that we may have the wisdom and courage to lead it out of the race .
why trust jagan ? ?
just because cheddi jagan , new boss of british guiana , was educated in the united states is no reason to think he isn't a red .
if we go all gooey over this newest castro ( until he proves he isn't ) we've got rocks in our heads .
russia and u.n.
just to remind the communists that the bombs dropped on japan were to end a war not start one .
intelligent people will admit that bombs and rockets of destruction are frightening whether they fall on japan , london or pearl harbor .
russia has showed its intentions by exploding bombs in peace time to try to frighten the world .
belated tribute
while `` better late than never '' may have certain merits , the posthumous award of the nobel prize for peace to the late dag hammarskjold strikes me as less than a satisfactory expression of appreciation .
according to one report , however , mr. hammarskjold was considered `` too controversial '' a figure to warrant bestowal of the coveted honor last spring .
at khrushchev's door , therefore , can be placed the primary blame but also at fault are those who permitted themselves to be intimidated .
as has happened so often in the past , the ability to recognize true greatness has been inadequate and tardy .
to the editor of the inquirer :
if only this could be done more often -- with such heartening results -- many of the earth's `` big problems '' would shrink to the insignificances they really are .
thanks for your good coverage of ahmad's visit , too ! !
to the editor of the inquirer :
however , several pertinent considerations deserve recognition .
we shuffle a large percentage of the cars across the river twice .
bridges , tunnels and ferries are the most common methods of river crossings .
we should avoid these congestion points or , putting it another way , keep cars starting and ending on the east side of the river -- on the east side .
widen the east river drive at least one lane .
so widen it as to minimize the present curves and eliminate drainage problems .
paint continuous lane stripes and install overhead directional lights as on our bridges .
( 4 )
shadow over washington square
i wish to advocate two drastic changes in washington square : 1 .
2 .
there's no sense in being reminded of times that were .
it may remind one of russia , china or east berlin ; ;
the fairmount park commission will no doubt approve my two proposals , because it is responsible for the change of ideological atmosphere in the square .
the feeding of birds is prohibited in this square .
does each tentacle of the octopus of city government reach out and lash at whatever it dislikes or considers an annoyance ? ?
they are the most beautiful part of that little piece of nature .
but the commission does not share such sentiments .
starlings and blackbirds are scared off by canon , from city hall .
if any are left , presently , we may expect to see signs specifically prohibiting the feeding of them too .
indeed no .
of course , in this small way of forcing the people to watch as tiny and innocent and dependent creatures die because we're afraid to feed them and afraid to protest and say , `` how come ? ?
who wants this deed done '' ? ?
one means to help the birds occurs to me : let the chimes that ring over washington square twice daily , discontinue any piece of music but one .
we will know , and he will know , to whom it is rendered , what the birds would ask :
to the editor of the inquirer :
unfortunately , those who would remedy our `` softness '' seek to do so with calisthenics .
it is not our bodies but our hearts and heads that have grown too soft .
when we become firm enough to stand for those ideals which we know to be right , when we become hard enough to refuse to aid nations which do not permit self-determination , when we become strong enough to resist any more drifts towards socialism in our own nation , when we recognize that our enemy is communism not war , and when we realize that concessions to communists do not insure peace or freedom , then , and only then will we no longer be `` soft '' .
disputes stans column business scandal views
the new column by maurice stans regarding business scandals , is fair and accurate in most respects and his solution to the problem has some merit .
i must , in fairness , take issue with his premise , primarily because the so-called scandals in labor unions were very much connected with business scandals .
these arrangements would have been impossible if the business community was truly interested in the welfare of its employes .
anyone familiar with the details of the mcclellan hearings must at once realize that the sweetheart arrangements augmented employer profits far more than they augmented the earnings of the corruptible labor leaders .
escalation unto death
it is being fought , moreover , in fairly close correspondence with the predictions of the soothsayers of the think factories .
the biggest nuclear device the united states has exploded measured some 15 megatons , although our b-52s are said to be carrying two 20-megaton bombs apiece .
he seems to have at least a few 30- and 50-megaton bombs on hand , since we cannot assume that he has exploded his entire stock .
khrushchev threatens us with a 100-megaton bomb ? ?
so escalation proceeds , ad infinitum or , more accurately , until the contestants begin dropping them on each other instead of on their respective proving grounds .
the escalation must end sometime , and probably quite soon .
`` the discontinuity can either be that of war to destruction , or that of diplomatic policy '' .
he feels , therefore , that to seek a discontinuity in the arms policy of the united states is the least risky path our government can take .
these gentlemen are calling for a resumption of testing -- in the atmosphere -- on the greatest possible scale , all in the name of national security .
they will be faithful unto death .
if this capacity had not failed them , they would see that their enemy has made a disastrous miscalculation .
but if his purpose was to inspire terror , his action could hardly have miscarried more obviously .
khrushchev himself is reported to be concerned by the surge of animosity he has aroused , yet our own nuclear statesmen seem intent on following compulsively in his footsteps .
thus , when the russians sent up their first sputnik , american chagrin was human enough , and american determination to put american satellites into orbit was perfectly understandable .
the tide turns
they are less vocal now , when it is the west berliners who are migrating .
west berlin morale is low and , in age distribution , the situation is unfavorable .
r. h. s. crossman , m.p. , writing in the manchester guardian , states that departures from west berlin are now running at the rate not of 700 , but of 1,700 a week , and applications to leave have risen to 1,900 a week .
whole families are moving and removal firms are booked for months ahead .
the gallant half-city is dying on its feet '' .
mark arnold-foster writes : `` people are leaving ( west berlin ) because they think it is dying .
berlin's resilience is amazing , but if it has to hire its labor in the west the struggle will be hard indeed '' .
the only hope for west berlin lies in a compromise which will bring down the wall and reunite the city .
tanks lined up at the border will be no more helpful .
a compromise will leave both sides without the glow of triumph , but it will save berlin .
vacancy
it is , in fact , a relatively mild chastisement of the dead .
and in england , after the restoration , the body of cromwell was disinterred and hanged at tyburn .
contemplating these posthumous punishments , stalin should not lose all hope .
nikita khrushchev , however , has created yet another problem for himself .
who will take stalin's place beside lenin ? ?
the macmillan government might be willing to let him go , but he has been dead seventy-eight years and even the soviet morticians could not make him look presentable .
who but nikita himself ? ?
besides , he can hardly avoid musing on the instability of death which , what with exhumations and rehabilitations , seems to match that of life .
if some future khrushchev decided to rake up the misdeeds of his revered predecessor , would not the factory workers pass the same resolutions applauding his dispossession ? ?
if nikita buys a small plot in some modest rural cemetery , everyone will understand .
the appointment of u thant of burma as the u.n.'s acting secretary general -- at this writing , the choice appears to be certain -- offers further proof that in politics it is more important to have no influential enemies than to have influential friends .
with the neutralists maintaining pressure for one of their own to succeed mr. hammarskjold , u thant emerged as the only possible candidate unlikely to be waylaid by a veto .
in all the bitter in-fighting , the squabbles over election procedures , the complicated numbers game that east and west played on the assistant secretaries' theme , the gentleman from burma showed himself both as a man of principle and a skilled diplomat .
he is a buddhist , which means that to him peace and the sanctity of human life are not only religious dogma , but a profound and unshakable weltanschauung .
whether the compromises -- on both sides -- that made possible the interim appointment can then be repeated remains to be seen .
the west may or not remain satisfied with the kind of neutralism that u thant represents .
no precedents have been set as yet ; ;
but at least the pessimists who believed that the world organization had plunged to its death in that plane crash in the congo have been proved wrong .
.
these are mentalities which crave action -- and they are beginning to get it , as messrs. salsich and engh report on page 372 .
) left vague , the spirit of vigilantism is spreading .
`` if the day should ever come that foreign invaders swarm ashore along the gulf coast '' , the account reads , `` they can count on heavy opposition from a group of commando-trained telephone employees -- all girls .
according to friends , the unit was organized by john snook , a former world war 2 , commando who is vice president and general manager of the telephone company .
they are also trained with carbines , automatic weapons , pistols , rifles and other such ladies' accessories .
the country is committed to the doctrine of security by military means .
it is not working now .
it cannot bring them into actual play .
as the civic temper rises , the more naive citizens begin to play soldier -- but the guns are real .
all false gods resemble moloch , at least in the early phases of their careers , so it would be unreasonable to expect any form of idol-worship to become widespread without the accompaniment of human sacrifice .
the annual butchery of 40,000 american men , women and children to satiate its blood-lust is excessive ; ;
no other popular idol is accorded even that much grace .
but by comparison with the railroad , the motor car is a relatively new object of popular worship , so it is too much to hope that it may be brought within the bounds of civilized usage quickly and easily .
here , then , is what swift would have called a modest proposal by way of a beginning .
to avoid suspicion of bigotry , let the hand of vengeance be stayed until the meat-wagon has picked up the twenty-five thousandth corpse ; ;
then let the whole lot be hanged in a public mass execution on july 4 , 1963 .
a special grandstand , protected by awnings from the midsummer sun of illinois , should be erected for occupancy by honored guests , who should include the ambassadors of all those new african nations as yet not quite convinced that the united states is thoroughly civilized .
as the trap is sprung .
the highway system is an agency of government , and when it grinds up 40,000 americans every year the government is destroying its own taxpayers , which is obviously a silly thing for any government to do .
moreover , the salubrious effects would not be exclusively political , but at least partially , and perhaps primarily social .
true , the adherents of staying put are now reduced to a minor , even a miniscule sect , and their credo , `` home-keeping hearts are happiest '' , is as disreputable as socinianism .
perhaps there is more truth than we are wont to admit in the conviction of that ornament of tarheelia , robert ruark's grandfather , who was persuaded that the great curse of the modern world is `` all this gallivantin' '' .
somehow our contemporary moloch must be induced to see reason .
if we make it established custom that whenever butchery on the highways grows excessive , say beyond 25,000 per annum , then somebody is going to hang , it follows that the more eminent the victim , the more impressive the lesson .
so , all things considered , the highway commissioners would seem to be elected .
but the guilt is shared by the united states , britain and france , the other members of the atomic club .
as it descends , the concentration of radioactivity builds up in the human body ; ;
the effect of radiation is cumulative over the years -- and on to succeeding generations .
shock , dismay and foreboding for future generations were legitimate reactions ; ;
on october 19 , after the soviets had detonated at least 20 nuclear devices , ambassador stevenson warned the un general assembly that this country , in `` self protection '' , might have to resume above-ground tests .
the trial balloons are afloat .
but for the average citizen , unfortunately , this is one of science's worst-marked channels , full of tricky currents and unknown depths .
on the one hand , the public health service declared as recently as october 26 that present radiation levels resulting from the soviet shots `` do not warrant undue public concern '' or any action to limit the intake of radioactive substances by individuals or large population groups anywhere in the aj .
then it added : `` it is not possible to determine how extensive these ill effects will be -- nor how many people will be affected '' .
then , to conclude on an indeterminate note : `` nevertheless , if fallout increased substantially , or remained high for a long time , it would become far more important as a potential health hazard in this country and throughout the world '' .
after declaring , in an article last month in frontier magazine , that the russian testing `` carries with it the possibility of the most tragic consequences of any action in the history of the world '' , he gave this estimate of the biologic and genetic consequences if the new soviet shots totaled 200 megatons :
long-lived carbon-14 from the fusion process would cause four million embryonic , neonatal or childhood deaths and stillbirths over the next 20 generations , and between 200,000 and one million human beings now living would have their lives cut short by radiation-produced diseases such as leukemia .
pauling's estimate of 200 megatons yield from the present series of russian tests will probably turn out to be too high , but a total of 100 megatons is a distinct possibility .
but more than one conscientious researcher has been inhibited from completely frank discussion of the available evidence by the less excusable fact that fallout has been made a political issue as well as a scientific problem .
an illustration of this attitude is found in john a. mccone's letter to dr. thomas lauritsen , reported in a note elsewhere in this issue of the new republic .
a recent study on radiation exposure by the aec's division of biology and medicine stated : `` the question of the biological effect of ( radiation ) doses is not considered '' herein .
if it comes down too hard on the potential dangers of fallout , it will box the president on resuming atmospheric tests .
now , of course , that the russians are the nuclear villains , radiation is a nastier word than it was in the mid , when the us was testing in the atmosphere .
after a nuclear blast , one bureaucrat suggested in those halcyon days , about all you had to do was haul out the broom and sweep off your sidewalks and roof .
yet if washington gets too indignant about soviet fallout , it will have to do a lot of fast footwork if america decides it too must start pushing up the radiation count .
as of october 25 , the aec had reported 24 shots in the new soviet series , 12 of them in a megaton range , including a super bomb with a yield of 30 to 50 megatons ( the equivalent of 30 million to 50 million tons of tnt ) ; ;
assuming the lower figure for the big blast and one shot estimated by the japanese at 10 megatons , a conservative computation is that the 24 announced tests produced a total yield of at least 60 megatons .
if the new soviet series has followed the general pattern of previous russian tests , the shots were roughly half fission and half fusion , meaning a fission yield of 30 to 40 megatons thus far .
resuming atmospheric tests
the first dilemma was the morality of nuclear warfare itself .
the second great dilemma has been the morality of nuclear testing , a dilemma which has suddenly become acute because of the present series of soviet tests .
it could have unilaterally abandoned further testing on the grounds of the radiation hazard to future generations .
or it could have chosen to find -- by negotiation -- some way of stopping the tests without loss to national security .
with the resumption of soviet testing and their intransigence at the geneva talks , however , the hope that this third choice would prove viable has been shaken .
and once again , the choices are much the same .
the first choice , abandoning tests entirely , would not only be unpopular domestically , but would surely be exploited by the russians .
the third choice , negotiation , presupposes , as russian behavior demonstrates , a great deal of wishful thinking to make it appear reasonable .
it is by no stretch of the imagination a happy choice and the arguments against it as a practical strategy are formidable .
one which , should it fail , will not have contaminated the conscience .
leaving aside the choice of unilateral cessation of tests as neither sane nor clearly moral , the question must arise as to why resumption of atmospheric tests on our part would not be a good choice .
in particular , governor nelson rockefeller has expressed as cogently and clearly as anyone the case for a resumption of atmospheric tests .
taking account of the fact that such a move on our part would be unpopular in world opinion , he argued that the responsibility of the united states is `` to do , confidently and firmly , not what is popular , but what is right '' .
the possibility , as he asserted , that the russians may get ahead of us or come closer to us because of their tests does not supply the needed ethical premise -- unless , of course , we have unwittingly become so brutalized that nuclear superiority is now taken as a moral demand .
recent statements by the president and defense department spokesmen have , to the contrary , assured us that our lead is very great .
it is perfectly conceivable that a resumption of atmospheric tests may , at some point in the future , be necessary and even justifiable .
what we need to realize is that the increasingly great contamination of the atmosphere by the soviet tests had radically increased our own moral obligations .
this is an ethical demand which cannot be evaded or glossed over by talking exclusively of weapon superiority or even of the evil of communism .
there ought to be a point beyond which we will not allow ourselves to go regardless of what russia does .
ecumenical hopes
with good reason it appeared that a new day was upon divided christendom .
the council we now know will concern itself directly only with the internal affairs of the church .
two things have happened in recent months to bring the council into perspective : each provides a basis for renewed hope and joy .
far from being irrelevant to the ecumenical task , the pontiff believes that a revivified church is required in order that the whole world may see catholicism in the best possible light .
a major aim of the council will be to remove as far as possible whatever in the church today stands in the way of unity .
the establishment , by the holy father , of a permanent secretariat for christian unity in 1960 was the most dramatic mark of this concern .
the public appeal by the new vatican secretary of state , cardinal cicognani , for renewed efforts toward eastern and western reunion was still another remarkable act .
augustin cardinal bea , the director of the secretariate for christian unity , has expressed as directly as anyone the new spirit that pervades the church's stance toward the protestant and orthodox churches .
for discouragement , or the temptation to abandon our efforts , `` would show that one placed excessive trust in purely human means without thinking of the omnipotence of god , the irresistible efficacy of prayer , the action of christ or the power of the divine spirit '' .
the budget deficit
certainly it isn't making the president happy , and he has been doing his apologetic best to explain how the budget got into its unbalanced condition , how he intends to economize wherever he can and how he hopes to do better next year .
furthermore , we find his defense of the unbalanced budget more dismaying than reassuring .
the eisenhower budget was simultaneously inadequate in its provisions and yet extravagant in its projections of revenue to be received .
four billion dollars of the spending increase is for defense , an expenditure necessitated by the penny-wise policies of the eisenhhower administration , quite apart from the recent crises in berlin and elsewhere .
the farm program will cost an additional 1.5 billion , because of unusual weather factors , the food for peace program and other new measures .
our complaint is that in many crucial areas the kennedy programs are not too large but too small , most seriously in regard to the conventional arms build-up and in aid and welfare measures .
we wish the president would remember that `` fiscal responsibility '' was the battle-cry of the party that lost the election .
ethics and peace
two of the principal addresses were delivered by prominent protestants , and when the speaker was a catholic , one `` discussant '' on the dais tended to be of another religious persuasion .
sessions devoted to `` ethics and foreign policy trends '' , `` moral principle and political judgment '' , `` christian ethics in the cold war '' and related subjects proved to be much livelier under this procedure than if catholics were merely talking to themselves .
in the earlier sessions there was plentiful discussion on the natural law , which dr. william v. o'brien of georgetown university , advanced as the basis for widely acceptable ethical judgments on foreign policy .
speakers declared that protestants often make use of it , if , perhaps , by some other name .
the impression was unmistakable that , whatever one may choose to call it , natural law is a functioning generality with a certain objective existence .
the stimulus from the confrontation of philosophical systems involving certain differences was undeniable .
but a realization that each group has much of substance to learn from the other also developed , and a strong conviction grew that each had insights and dimensions to contribute to ethically acceptable solutions of urgent political issues .
the pervasive influence of ideology on our political judgments needs to be recognized and taken into due account ; ;
everywhere i went in formosa i asked the same question .
i never found it among any of the chinese with whom i spoke , though granted they were , almost all , members of the official family who , presumably , harbor official thoughts .
their answer was : it can be done , and we will do it .
what evidence is there of an objective kind that in fact your government proposes to do just that , and that it can be done '' ? ?
( he always smiles -- at least at visitors , i gather .
i recalled sympathetically the duke's complaint in browning's `` my last duchess '' .
that , i smarted , is a royal rebuff if ever there was one .
chiang spoke again , this time at greater length .
he says that if he were to express to you , once again , his own profound determination to go to the mainland , and his faith that that return is feasible , he would merely sound redundant .
any information we have here in taiwan is at your disposal '' .
what are the relevant data ? ?
if the raw population figures are crucially relevant , then it is idle to think of liberation , as idle as to suppose that poland might liberate russia .
less than 60-1 , but at least 6-1 .
say four million .
skill ? ?
morale ? ?
the morale is very high .
the miserable people of china , the largest cast ever conscripted to enact an ideological passion play , cannot themselves resist overtly .
but the army which mao continues to feed well , where are its sympathies ? ?
it has not been extirpated by ten years of communist depersonalization .
the soldiers themselves cannot stage a successful rebellion , it is assumed : but will their discontent spread to the officer class ? ?
but there are the cousins and aunts and nephews .
in behalf of what ? ?
to whom will the generals stay loyal ? ?
it is another question whether `` they '' -- or a single general , off in a corner of china , secure for a few ( galvanizing ? ?
but the disposition to rebel is most definitely there .
the military in taiwan believe that the communists have made two mistakes , which , together , may prove fatal .
the family is largely broken up ; ;
for it is the family that , in china , has always provided social security for the indigent , the sick , the down-and-out members of the clan .
but the government is left with no reserve granary , under the agricultural system it has ordained .
the second mistake is tibet .
a friendly state , sometimes only semi-independent , but never hostile .
red china is trying to do this , and she is not likely ever to succeed .
tibet may bleed china as algeria is bleeding france .
the imposition of yet another pressure , a strong one , from the outside , might cause it to snap .
they know that they must depend heavily on factors outside their own control .
on these they feel they can rely .
they hope that if history vouchsafes the west another budapest , we will receive the opportunity gladly .
he affected ( most properly ) not to understand my point .
we have been grand to formosa itself -- lots of aid , and , most of the time , a policy of support for the offshore islands .
a great deal depends on the crystallization of mr. kennedy's views on the world struggle .
there is not anywhere on the frontiers of freedom a more highly mobilized force for liberation .
during the slow buildup , the essence of a policy or a man is concealed under embroidered details , fine words , strutting gestures .
there the truth is , open to eyes that are willing to look .
new self-deceiving rags are hurriedly tossed on the too-naked bones .
before memory , too , clouds over , let us make a note or two of what could be seen .
one knows better , now , who has bone and who has jelly in his spine .
public men come and go but great issues of policy remain .
the united states was engaged in a military attack on a peaceful , orderly people governed by a regime that had proved itself the most pro-western and anti-communist within any of the new nations -- the only place in africa , moreover , where a productive relationship between whites and blacks had apparently been achieved .
but in the moment of truth everyone could see that the u.s. was in reality the principal .
by our policy the west was -- is -- split .
the controlling pattern was first displayed in the hungary-suez crisis of november 1956 .
at the peaks of the nuclear test and the berlin cycles ; ;
right now , with almost cartoon emphasis , in the temporally linked complex of tshombe-gizenga-goa-ghana .
this prime element of the truth may be stated as follows : under prevailing policy , the u.s. can take the initiative against the right , but cannot take the initiative against the left .
the u.s. cannot take the initiative against the left .
we can attack tshombe , but not gigenza .
no matter that it is his troops who rape western women and eat western men .
( even granted that the congo should be unified , you don't protect western security by first removing the pro-western weight from the power equilibrium .
we can force britain and france out of the suez , but we cannot so much as try to force the russian tanks back from budapest .
we can vote in the un against south african apartheid or portuguese rule in angola , but we cannot even introduce a motion on the berlin wall -- much less , give the simple order to push the wall down .
in the very week of our war against katanga , we make a $133 million grant to kwame nkrumah , who has just declared his solidarity with the communist bloc , and is busily turning his own country into a totalitarian dictatorship .
what explains this uni-directional paralysis ? ?
the suez-hungary crisis proves that this system was not invented by the new administration , but only made more consistent and more active .
most immediately relevant to these episodes in goa , katanga and ghana , as to the suez-hungary crisis before them , is the belief that the main theater of the world drama is the underdeveloped region of asia , africa and latin america .
our chief aim becomes that of finding favor in neutralist eyes .
and it becomes clear why in general we cannot take the initiative against the left .
the unoriginals
nowadays , more and more , all he needs is someone else's book .
he and his prospective producer just read the bestseller lists .
best from abroad .
the wall , awkwardly based on the john hersey novel ; ;
face of a hero ( closed ) , based on a pierre boulle novel .
clearly the most provocative plays are all imported originals -- a taste of honey , by britain's young ( 19 when she wrote it ) shelagh delaney ; ;
the hostage ( closed ) , by ireland's brendan behan .
wildcat and the unsinkable molly brown were originals , but pretty bad , leaving top honors again to an import -- the jaunty and charmingly french irma la douce .
in the forthcoming the conquering hero and carnival , broadway is not even adapting books , but reconverting old movies ( hail the conquering hero and lili ) .
originals are not necessarily good and adaptations are not necessarily bad .
and particularly in the musical field , adaptations have long been the rule , from die fledermaus and the merry widow to oklahoma! and my fair lady .
and other defenders invariably argue that , after all , shakespeare and moliere were adapters too .
most modern adapters totally accept the world of a book , squeeze it dry of life , and add only one contribution of their own : stage technique .
but that explanation is only partly true .
laudably enough , it is offering classics and off-beat imports , but last week only one u.s. original was on the boards , robert d. hock's stunning civil war work , borak .
nightclubs
he : `` come with me to the casbah '' .
that exchange was not only possible but commonplace last week in manhattan , as more and more new yorkers were discovering 29th street and eighth avenue , where half a dozen small nightclubs with names like arabian nights , grecian palace and egyptian gardens are the american inpost of belly dancing .
their burgeoning popularity may be a result of the closing of the 52nd street burlesque joints , but curiously enough their atmosphere is almost always familial -- neighborhood saloons with a bit of epidermis .
customers often bring their children ; ;
except for the odd uptown sex maniac or an overeager greek sailor , the people watch in calm absorption .
the darbuka , a small drum with the treelike shape of a roemer glass ; ;
the girls sit quietly with the musicians , wearing prim dresses or plain , secretarial shifts , until it is time to go off to a back room and reappear in the spare uniform of the harem .
if a dancer is good , she suggests purely and superbly the fundamental mechanics of ancestry and progeny -- the continuum of mankind .
each dancer follows the ancient oriental pattern -- she glides sideways with shoulders motionless while her stomach migrates , and , through breathing and muscle control , she sends ripples across her body to the fingertips and away to the far end of the room .
the new york dancers are highly eclectic , varying the pattern with all kinds of personal improvisations , back bends or floor crawls .
the striptease is crass ; ;
when a dancer does well , she provokes a quiet bombardment of dollar bills -- although the manhattan clubs prohibit the more cosmopolitan practice of slipping the tips into the dancers' costumes .
although they are forbidden to sit with the customers , the dancers are sometimes proffered drinks , and most of them can bolt one down in mid-shimmy .
all over the country , belly clubs have never been bigger , especially in detroit , boston and chicago , and even in small towns ; ;
the girls are kept booked and moving by several agents , notably voluble , black-bearded murat somay , a manhattan turk who is the sol hurok of the central abdomen .
but a great many of the dancers are more or less native .
as the girls come to belly dancing from this and other origins , the melting pot has never bubbled more intriguingly .
jemela ( surname : gerby ) , 23 , seems hong kong oriental but has a spanish father and an indian mother , was born in america and educated at holy cross academy and textile high school , says she learned belly dancing at family picnics .
daughter of a gypsy mother who taught her to dance , she is one of the few really beautiful girls in the new york casbah , with dark eyes and dark , waist-length hair , the face of an adolescent patrician and a lithe , glimmering body .
marlene ( surname : adamo ) , 25 , a brazilian divorcee who learned the dance from arabic friends in paris , now lives on manhattan's west side , is about the best belly dancer working the casbah , loves it so much that she dances on her day off .
leila ( malia phillips ) , 25 , is a greenwich village painter of persianesque miniatures who has red hair that cascades almost to her ankles .
gloria ( surname : ziraldo ) , circa 30 , who was born in italy and once did `` chorus work '' in toronto , has been around longer than most of the others , wistfully remembers the old days when `` we used to get the seamen from the ships , you know , with big turtleneck sweaters and handkerchiefs and all .
the uptown crowd has moved in , and what girl worth her seventh veil would trade a turtleneck sweater for a button-down collar ? ?
of the handful of painters that austria has produced in the 20th century , only one , oskar kokoschka , is widely known in the u.s. .
for ten years a small group of european and u.s. critics has been calling attention to the half-forgotten austrian expressionist egon schiele , who died 42 years ago at the age of 28 .
the show has been to boston and manhattan , will in time reach pittsburgh and minneapolis .
schiele's paintings are anything but pleasant .
his colors are dark and murky , and his landscapes and cityscapes seem swallowed in gloom .
the devil himself .
he was an emotional , lonely boy who spent so much time turning out drawings that he did scarcely any schoolwork .
even there he did not last for long .
for a while his work was influenced deeply by the french impressionists , and by the patterned , mosaic-like paintings of gustav klimt , then the dean of austrian art .
his pictures were roundly denounced as `` the most disgusting things one has ever seen in vienna '' .
for years he wore hand-me-down suits and homemade paper collars , was even driven to scrounging for cigarette butts in vienna's gutters .
it was not until the last year of his life that he had his first moneymaking show .
the unabashed sexuality of so many of his paintings was not the only thing that kept the public at bay : his view of the world was one of almost unrelieved tragedy , and it was too much even for morbid-minded vienna .
the children he painted were almost always in rags , his portraits were often ruthless to the point of ugliness , and his nudes -- including several self-portraits -- were stringy , contorted and strangely pathetic .
the most surprising thing about the twenty-second congress of the soviet communist party is that it is surprising -- perhaps quite as much , in its own way , as the twentieth congress of 1956 , which ended with that famous `` secret '' report on stalin .
these never ceased to suggest that if , in the eyes of marx and lenin `` full communism '' was still a very distant ideal , the establishment of a communist society had now , under khrushchev , become an `` immediate and tangible reality '' .
he and other soviet leaders responsible for the document were proud of having brought forward some new formulas , such as the early replacement of the dictatorship of the proletariat by an `` all people's state '' , and also of having laid down the lines for a much greater `` democratization '' of the whole hierarchy of soviets , starting with the supreme soviet itself .
also , elections would be more democratic ; ;
no doubt , there was still a lot in the draft program -- and in khrushchev's speech -- which left many points obscure .
as we know , the soviet peasant today still very largely thrives on being able to sell the produce grown on his private plot ; ;
if one follows the reports of the congress , one finds that there still seems considerable uncertainty in the minds of the leaders themselves about what exactly to do in this matter .
it contained , for example , a number of curious admissions about the peasants , who enjoy no sickness benefits , no old-age pensions , no paid holidays ; ;
over all these fairly awkward problems khrushchev was to skate rather lightly ; ;
would agriculture progress as rapidly as industry ? ?
for he kept on threatening that he would `` pull the ears '' of those responsible for agricultural production .
one cannot but wonder whether these doubts about the success of khrushchev's agricultural policy have not at least something to do with one of the big surprises provided by this congress -- the obsessive harping on the crimes and misdeeds of the `` anti-party group '' -- molotov , malenkov , kaganovich and others -- including the eighty-year-old marshal voroshilov .
in fact , with having been against all the more popular features of the khrushchev `` welfare state '' .
but one cannot escape the suspicion that all this non-stop harping on the misdeeds of the long liquidated `` anti-party '' group would be totally unnecessary if there were not , inside the party , some secret but genuine opposition to khrushchev on vital doctrinal grounds , on the actual methods to be employed in the `` transition to communism '' and , last but not least , on foreign policy .
mikoyan declared :
his views , in fact , coincide with those of foreign enemies of peaceful coexistence , who look upon it merely as a variant of the `` cold war '' or of an `` armed peace '' .
for something , clearly , has gone very , very seriously wrong in soviet-chinese relations , which were never easy , and have now deteriorated .
not only , as we know , did chou en-lai publicly treat khrushchev's attack on albania as `` something that we cannot consider as a serious marxist-leninist approach '' to the problem ( i.e. , as something thoroughly dictatorial and `` undemocratic '' ) , but the albanian leaders went out of their way to be openly abusive to khrushchev , calling him a liar , a bully , and so on .
the big question is whether , in the name of a restored chinese-soviet solidarity , the chinese will choose to persuade the albanians to present their humble apologies to khrushchev -- or get rid of enver hoxa .
but albania is merely a symptom of a real malaise between china and russia .
khrushchev , for all his bombastic prophecies about the inevitable decay of capitalism , is genuinely favorable to `` peaceful coexistence '' and would like , above all , the berlin and german problems to be settled peacefully ; ;
but it seems that pressures against him are coming from somewhere -- in the first place from china , but perhaps also from that `` china lobby '' which , i was assured in moscow nearly two years ago , exists on the quiet inside the party .
and the chinese , as the albanian incident shows , have strong suspicions that khrushchev is anxious to secure a `` shameful '' peace with the west .
and one cannot but wonder whether marshal malinovsky , who was blowing hot and cold , exalting peace but also almost openly considering the possibility of preventive war against the west , wasn't trying to keep the chinese quiet .
was not this dropped primarily in order to `` appease '' the chinese -- especially after `` khrushchev's `` humiliating '' surrender to the west in canceling the german peace-treaty deadline of december 31 ? ?
indications are that khrushchev ( and , with him , the bulk of the soviet people ) favor peaceful coexistence and ( with the exception of berlin ) the maintenance of the status quo in the world .
perhaps khrushchev is in a more difficult position than any since 1957 , when the `` anti-party group '' nearly liquidated him .
but if he is up against china's crusading spirit in world affairs , he is going to be faced with the most agonizing choice in his life .
he may break with china ( which would be infernally difficult and perhaps disastrous ) , or he may succeed , by all kinds of dangerous concessions , in persuading china to be patient .
on a misty sunday morning last month , a small band of militant anti-communists called the minutemen held maneuvers in a foggy field about fifteen miles east of here .
to the average american , this must sound like an incredible tale from a saturday night tv movie .
they feel that the united states is engaged in a life-and-death struggle with communism for survival and world supremacy .
their national leader , robert bolivar depugh of norborne , mo. , says the minutemen believe that guerrilla tactics are best suited to defeat the red onslaught .
the maneuvers were held `` in secret '' after a regional seminar for the minutemen , held in nearby shiloh , ill. , had been broken up the previous day by deputy sheriffs , who had arrested regional leader richard lauchli of collinsville , ill. , and seized four operative weapons , including a browning machine gun , two browning automatic rifles and an m-4 rifle .
a 60 mm. mortar and a 57 mm. recoilless rifle owned by lauchli were brought along .
after a tortuous drive in an open truck and a world war 2 , army jeep down soggy trails , the band arrived at a small clearing squeezed between a long , low ridge and a creek-filled gully .
the minutemen were instructed in the use of terrain for concealment .
they practiced movement behind a smoke screen laid by smoke grenades ; ;
eleven dummy rounds were fired by lauchli in a demonstration of rapid-fire mortar shooting .
there were no `` casualties '' , but the `` guerrillas '' admitted to being `` a little tired '' when the leaders called a halt at 9 a.m. to enable out-of-town members to catch a plane .
i would like to add one more practical reform to those mentioned by russell kirk ( dec. 16 ) .
next september , after receiving a degree from yale's master of arts in teaching program , i will be teaching somewhere -- that much is guaranteed by the present shortage of mathematics teachers .
the amazing thing is that this too is caused by the dearth of teachers .
as a result buyers , the public , must be satisfied with second-rate teachers .
the rub arises from the fact that teachers are usually paid on the basis of time served rather than quality .
i am firmly convinced that considering the average quality of teachers in this country , the profession is grossly overpaid .
there is a limit to how much the public will pay for shoddy performance .
the only hope which the public has for getting good teachers is to pay teachers on the basis of merit rather than tenure .
loss of initiative
what we will be sacrificing in any such arrangement will be our power to be selective which is contained in the reciprocal trade principle under which we now operate .
it is this loss of initiative in how we conduct our economy which may lead to the loss of initiative in how we conduct our political affairs .
i disagree with mr. burnham's position on the common market ( nov. 18 ) as a desirable organization for us to join .
the pressure for our entry to the common market is mounting and we will proceed towards this amalgamated trade union by way of a purely `` economic thoroughfare '' , or garden path , with the political ramifications kept neatly in the background .
in entering this union we will be surrendering most , if not all , of our economic autonomy to international bodies such as the atlantic institute ( recently set up ) or the o.e.c.d. , i.m.f. and others .
if it is not enough that all of our internationalist one worlders are advocating that we join this market , i refer you to an article in the new york times' magazine section ( nov. 12 , 1961 ) , by mr. eric johnston , entitled `` we must join the common market '' .
referring to britain , he says , `` we see a nation that traditionally values sovereignty above all else willing to give up its economy , placing this authority in continental hands '' .
frankly , it is being very cleverly done for , in a sense , they have us over a barrel .
we would lose our export markets and deny ourselves the imports we need .
but the solution to this dilemma is not the incorporation of the united states into an atlantic community or `` economic empire '' , but merely what libertarians like henry hazlitt and ludwig von mises have been arguing for years : an end to government regulations , an end to government competition in industry , and a realistic depreciation allowance for industry .
in short , get this governmental monstrosity off our backs and we won't have to worry about european competition or communism either .
not acquiesce to an international planning board .
we welcome this able brief for the negative as part of a many-sided discussion of the atlantic common market which jnr will be continuing in our pages .
mental telepathy ? ?
a professor and the army
now , more than five years later , i cannot in any realistic sense be called a trained soldier .
today , seven years after the date of my initial induction as a draftee , i am assistant professor of philosophy and science at st. michael's college .
this time , added to that which i had already spent in school prior to my induction in 1954 , makes a total of twenty-two ( 22 ) years of education .
with this no loyal citizen can quarrel .
in my own case , i submit that such reasonable and fair exercise is woefully lacking .
( a wry sidelight on this is that most of my students have deferments from the draft in order to attend my classes .
even apart from the fact that now at the age of 31 my personal life is being totally disrupted for the second time for no very compelling reason -- i cannot help looking around at the black leather jacket brigades standing idly on the street corners and in the taverns of every american city and asking myself if our society has gone mad .
in news broadcasts i consistently hear the foreign volunteers fighting in the katanga army referred to as mercenaries .
if the hessian troops sent here willy-nilly by the hessian government to fight for england in the 1770's were mercenaries , what shall we call the un troops sent to the congo willy-nilly by their governments to fight for the united nations ? ?
and if the foreigners fighting in the katanga army are mercenaries then lafayette and von steuben were mercenaries too , as were also the members of the lafayette escadrille in the early part of world war 1 , and of chennault's flying tigers in the early days of world war 2 .
it doesn't take a gore vidal to tell you what's wrong with cherokee textile's slogan ( pitney-bowes objects '' , july 1 ) .
suggest the following twenty-first-century amendment : by moving the term `` republic '' to lower case , substituting the modern phrase , `` move ahead '' for the stodgy `` keep '' , and by using the postmaster's name on every envelope ( in caps , of course , with the `` in spite '' as faded as possible ) , the slogan cannot fail .
in the issue of march 5 , 1960 you had an excellent editorial which said :
facing a prosecution which has demanded the death penalty , he said : ' i have participated in the war against communism in korea and at dienbienphu , and i have helped in the evacuation of north vietnamese to the free world .
at least in indonesia , khrushchev found an american proud to be at total war with communism '' ! !
i found recently a very small article in the new york times :
indonesia court upholds pope's death sentence .
pope was convicted last year of having aided north celebes rebels by flying bombing missions .
he may appeal to president sukarno for clemency '' .
this possibility is anything but reassuring .
but who will act now and immediately to save the life of alan pope ? ?
does anybody think of saving the life of an anti-communist american pilot ? ?
a few days before i saw your mention of what texas liberals were doing to promote `` louis capet '' ( the week '' , june 3 ) , another analogy had occurred to me .
louis 14 , -- aj .
2 .
`` a ' dust-settling ' period of decadence and decline '' .
louis 15 , -- eisenhower .
4 .
`` not completely virtuous , but completely incompetent '' .
`` the beautiful and light-hearted '' .
french revolution -- conservative revolution ? ?
in defeating `` louis capet '' , john tower's victory in texas signals , once again , the end of the divine right of liberalism .
it seems to me that n.c. , in his editorial `` confrontation '' ( sr , mar. 25 ) , has hit upon the real problem that bothers all of us in a complex world : how do we retain our personal relationship with those who suffer ? ?
i know of no other solution than the one n.c. proposes -- to do what we can for each sufferer as he confronts us , hoping that this will spread beyond him to others at some time and some place .
thank you for the illustrated editorial `` confrontation '' .
n.c. has said something important so well that this preacher will many times be tempted to quote the whole piece .
personally , it meant a great deal ; ;
`` confrontation '' should fortify us all , whether in southeast asia or the u.s. .
i concur that it is necessary for americans to have a confrontation of the situation existing in foreign lands .
the editorial `` confrontation '' was certainly direct in its appeal to those of us living here in america .
thanks for continuing to capture the attention and uncover so many areas of need in this amazing world .
i would hope that sargent shriver will encourage everyone entering the peace corps to read it .
editor's note : reprints of `` confrontation '' will be included among the material to be distributed to members of the peace corps .
improper bostonian ? ?
i certainly hope this will be the impression left in the minds of readers , rather than the comment by cleveland amory in his first of the month column .
facts in focus
the current stereotype of straight news reporting was probably invaluable in protecting the press and its readers from pollution by that combination of doctored fact , fancy , and personal opinion called yellow journalism which flourished in this country more than a generation ago .
the public is now armed with sophistication and numerous competing media .
the accepted method of writing news has two major liabilities .
a reporter restricted to the competing propaganda statements of both sides in a major labor dispute , for instance , is unable to tell his readers half of what he knows about the causes of the dispute .
the charges by the late junior senator from wisconsin not only destroyed innocent people but misled the nation .
despite several years of front-page stories , the average citizen was unable to get a complete picture of mccarthy until he saw on the television screen what the reporters had been seeing all along but had no effective way of communicating .
it seems to me the time has come for the american press to start experimenting with ways of reporting the news that will do a better job of communicating and will be less subject to abuse by those who have learned how to manipulate the present stereotype to serve their own ends .
southern california blackout
you have on more than one occasion praised the idea of a televised press conference and the chance it gives the people to form intelligent opinions .
i am sure that they did when eisenhower was president .
up until now , the networks have grudgingly run half-hour tapes at 5 p.m. or sometimes 7 or 10:30 p.m. .
however , last night the tapes were not run at all during the evening hours and all we got on tv were a few snatches which douglas edwards and huntley and brinkley could squeeze into their programs .
the radio stations did run `` transcripts '' ( i thought ) during the evening hours .
i am interested to know he is getting mail from all over the country about the `` abuse '' he is being subjected to .
i don't know if this is the situation in other parts of the country ; ;
it also happened with the inauguration , which was not re-run at all during the evening hours , and i wrote to the tv editor of the times .
can you bring the networks' attention to this ? ?
i was interested in james webb young's madison avenue column in which he raised the question : `` do we need a college of propaganda '' ? ?
in my estimation , we definitely do ; ;
during the war , we set up schools for the teaching of psychological warfare , which included the teaching of propaganda , both black and white and the various shades of grey in between .
there were also a couple in canada , and several in england .
four of us here in the united states attended , first as students , then as instructors , almost every one of these schools , in england , canada , and the united states .
toward the end of the war , we really felt that we had learned something about propaganda and how to teach it .
we hoped that its practitioners and teachers might be put on some sort of reserve list and called back for refresher courses each year or so .
there apparently is no school of propaganda or psychological warfare .
and not one of the four men who attended all the schools has ever been called on to apply any of his knowledge in any way .
this is one of the most constructive suggestions made in this critical field in years , and i certainly hope it sparks some action .
many of us in public relations were flattered that richard l. tobin chose to devote his editorial in the march 11 communications supplement to the merger of the public relations society of america and the american public relations association .
i was surprised and sorry to find in your issue of march 4 a long and detailed attack upon a book that had not yet been published .
one should be able to get hold of the book at once .
if this practice should take root and spread , the man who submits a manuscript to a publisher will find himself reviewed before he is accepted and publication will become a sort of post-mortem formality .
`` i have read an advance copy of the snow book which is to be titled , ' science and government .
but i have compared its text with already published commentaries on the 1960 series of godkin lectures at harvard , from which the book was derived , and i can with confidence challenge the gist of c. p. snow's incautious tale '' .
representatives of harvard university press , which is publishing the book this month of april , recognize and freely acknowledge that they invited such reaction by allowing life magazine to print an excerpt from the book in advance of the book's publication date .
sir robert watson-watt's `` rebuttal '' of sir charles snow's godkin lectures is marred throughout by too forceful a desire to defend lindemann and apparently himself from sir charles' supposed falsehoods while stating those `` falsehoods '' in an unclear incoherent argument .
it calls the conclusion admitted valid by `` historians and military strategists alike '' a `` perverted conclusion .
it submits an enthusiastic , impressionistic conception of lindemann contributing another aspect of the man , but on no more authoritative basis than sir charles' account .
the only fact that holds any weight in the article is the result of the tea party .
if so , i would lean to sir charles' conception of the man .
to the unfortunate people unable to attend the godkin lectures it casts an unjustifiable aura of falsehood over the book which may dissuade some people from reading it .
certainly not in orchestra hall where he has played countless recitals , and where thursday night he celebrated his 20th season with the chicago symphony orchestra , playing the brahms concerto with his own slashing , demon-ridden cadenza melting into the high , pale , pure and lovely song with which a violinist unlocks the heart of the music , or forever finds it closed .
not the noblest performance we have heard him play , or the most spacious , or even the most eloquent .
this time the orchestra gave him some superb support fired by response to his own high mood .
that is , when mr. milstein thrust straight to the core of the music , sparks flying , bow shredding , violin singing , glittering and sometimes spitting , mr. hendl could go along .
he flounders and lets music sprawl .
so we had some dazzling and memorable milstein , but not great brahms .
hindemith's joust with weber tunes was a considerably more serious misfortune , for it demands transluscent textures , buoyant rhythms , and astringent wit .
bayreuth next summer
sawalisch also conducts `` the flying dutch '' , opening july 24 .
the `` ring '' cycles are july 26 , 27 , 28 and 30 , and aug. 21 , 22 , 23 and 25 .
no casts are listed , but lotte lehmann sent word that the negro soprano , grace bumbry , will sing venus in `` tannhaeuser '' .
remember how by lack of two big theaters chicago missed the first visit of the royal danish ballet ? ?
but barring a miracle , and don't hold your breath for it , chicago will not see the leningrad-kirov ballet , which stems from the ballet cradle of the maryinsky and is one of the great companies of the world .
the engagement was supposed to be all set for the big theater in mccormick place , which sol hurok , ballet booker extraordinary , considers the finest house of its kind in the country -- and of course he doesn't weep at the capacity , either .
allied arts corporation first listed the chicago dates as dec. 4 thru 10 .
but if you keep a calendar of events , as we do , you noticed a conflict .
something had to give .
allied arts then notified us that the kirov would cut short its los angeles booking , fly here to open nov. 28 , and close dec. 2 .
we printed it .
so i started making some calls of my own .
the kirov ballet is firmly booked into the shrine auditorium , los angeles , nov. 21 thru dec. 4 .
then why not the juicy booking hurok had held for us ? ?
then how about the civic opera house ? ?
queried about the impasse , allied arts said : `` better cancel the kirov for the time being .
so the kirov will fly back to russia , minus a chicago engagement , a serious loss for dance fans -- and for the frustrated bookers , cancellation of one of the richest bookings in the country .
paintings and drawings by marie moore of st. thomas , virgin islands , are shown thru nov. 5 at the meadows gallery , 3211 ellis av. , week days , 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. , sundays 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. , closed mondays .
it will continue all month .
in the line of operatic trades to cushion the budget , the dallas civic opera will use san francisco's new leni bauer-ecsy production of `` lucia di lammermoor '' this season , returning the favor next season when san francisco uses the dallas `` don giovanni '' , designed by franco zeffirelli .
it is one of the most entertaining and irresponsible novels of the season .
perhaps the lesson we should take from these pages is that the welfare state in england still allows wild scope for all kinds of rugged eccentrics .
one is an imperial london stockbroker called jerebohm .
what's up now ? ?
they want to own a junior-grade castle , or a manor house , or some modest little place where shakespeare might once have staged a pageant for great elizabeth and all her bearded courtiers .
and of course larkin has just the thing they want .
it's a horror .
that's not precisely the way larkin urges them to look at it , though .
he suggests that gore court embodies all the glories of tudor splendor .
the vast , dungeon kitchens may seem hardly worth using except on occasions when one is faced with a thousand unexpected guests for lunch .
the spaciousness of the tudor cooking areas , for example , will provide needed space for the extra television sets required by modern butlers , cooks and maids .
it's a wonder , really , to how much mendacious trouble larkin puts himself to sell the jerebohms that preposterous manse .
for larkin is already wonderfully contented with his lot .
when he needs money to buy something like , say , the rolls-royce he keeps near his vegetable patch , he takes a flyer in the sale of surplus army supplies .
he is willing to sell it just to get it off his hands .
they plan to become county people who know the proper way to terminate a fox's life on earth .
if , in larkin's eyes , they are nothing but piccadilly farmers , he has as much to learn about them as they have to learn about the ways of truly rural living .
oneupmanship is practiced by both sides in a total war .
after larkin has been persuaded to restock his tangled acres with pheasants , he poaches only what he needs for the nourishment of his family and local callers .
he doesn't think that potting them from a deck chair on the south side of the house with a quart glass of beer for sustenance is entirely sporting .
it is truly odd and ironic that the most handsome and impressive film yet made from miguel de cervantes' `` don quixote '' is the brilliant russian spectacle , done in wide screen and color , which opened yesterday at the fifty-fifth street and sixty-eighth street playhouses .
nikolai cherkasov , the russian actor who has played such heroic roles as alexander nevsky and ivan the terrible , performs the lanky don quixote , and does so with a simple dignity that bridges the inner nobility and the surface absurdity of this poignant man .
cherkasov does not caricature him , as some actors have been inclined to do .
directed by grigory kozintsev in a tempo that is studiously slow , he develops a sense of a high tradition shining brightly and passing gravely through an impious world .
the voices of all the characters , including that of cherkasov , have richness , roughness or color to conform with the personalities .
since russian was being spoken instead of spanish , there is no violation of artistry or logic here .
though his character is broader and more comically rounded than the don , he gives it a firmness and toughness -- a sort of peasant dignity -- too .
the episode in which sancho panza concludes the joke that is played on him when he is facetiously put in command of an `` island '' is one of the best in the film .
but strength and poignancy develop thenceforth , and the windmill and deathbed episodes gather the threads of realization of the wonderfulness of the old boy .
also on the bill at the fifty-fifth street is a nice ten-minute color film called `` sunday in greenwich village '' , a tour of the haunts and joints .
there seems to be an unfortunate assumption that an hour of chicago-style jazz in prime evening time , for example , could not be justified without the trimmings of a portentous documentary .
the program came out of the nbc special projects department , and was slotted in the du pont show of the week series .
if so , it might be worth while to assign a future jazz show to a different department -- one with enough confidence in the musical material to cut down on the number of performers and give them a little room to display their talents .
a few years ago a `` timex all-star jazz show '' offered a broad range of styles , ranging from lionel hampton's big band to the free-wheeling dukes of dixieland .
about that same time john crosby's tv series on the popular arts proved again that giving jazz ample breathing space is one of the most sensible things a producer can do .
the program had been arranged to permit the establishment of a mood of intense concentration on the music .
`` chicago and all that jazz '' could not be faulted on the choice of artists .
the jazz buff could hardly ask for more .
( he played host at the timex show already mentioned .
one of the script's big problems was how to blend pictures and music of the past with live performances by musicians of today .
for example , there was sheet music with the word `` jazz '' in the title , to illustrate how a word of uncertain origin took hold .
however well chosen and cleverly arranged , such memorabilia unfortunately amounted to more of an interruption than an auxiliary to the evening's main business , which ( considering the talent at hand ) should probably have been the gathering of fresh samples of the chicago style .
similarly , in presenting still photographs of early jazz groups , the program allowed no time for a close perusal .
by trying to be both a serious survey of a bygone era and a showcase for today's artists , the program turned out to be a not-quite-perfect example of either .
even joan sutherland may not have anticipated the tremendous reception she received from the metropolitan opera audience attending her debut as lucia in donizetti's `` lucia di lammermoor '' sunday night .
her entrance in scene 2 , act 1 , brought some disconcerting applause even before she had sung a note .
as she gained composure during the second act , her technical resourcefulness emerged stronger , though she had already revealed a trill almost unprecedented in years of performances of `` lucia '' .
each high note had the crowd in ecstasy so that it stopped the show midway in the `` mad scene '' , but the real reason was a realization of the extraordinary performance unfolding at the moment .
what followed the outburst brought almost breathless silence as miss sutherland revealed her mastery of a voice probably unique among sopranos today .
nervousness at the start must have caused the blemishes of her first scene , or she may warm up slowly .
technically it was fascinating , aurally spell-binding , and dramatically quite realistic .
her debut over , perhaps the earlier scenes will emerge equally fine .
he injected more vitality into the score than it has revealed in many years .
richard tucker sang edgardo in glorious voice .
the remainder of the cast fulfilled its assignments no more than satisfactorily just as the old production and limited stage direction proved only serviceable .
( the first metropolitan opera broadcast on dec. 9 will introduce her as lucia .
she will sing `` la sonambula '' with it here next week .
it's really quite fun -- as long as you like games .
there are 12 of these to choose from , all of them of popular music except for the star release , pass in review ( sp-44001 ) .
complete with crowd effects , interruptions by jet planes , and sundry other touches of realism , this disc displays london's new technique to the best effect .
no reference is made to the possibility of recording other than popular music in this manner , and it would not seem to lend itself well to serious music .
but when the sounds of the two speakers are allowed to mix , there is excellent depth and dimension to the music .
this is a characteristic of good stereo recording and one of its tremendous advantages over monaural sound .
these are then mixed by their sound engineers with the active co-operation of the musical staff and combined into the final two channels which are impressed on the record .
some clue to the character of london's approach in these discs may be gained immediately from the fact that ten of the 12 titles include the word `` percussion '' or `` percussive '' .
only too often , however , you have the feeling that you are sitting in a room with some of the instruments lined up on one wall to your left and others facing them on the wall to your right .
the percussive twenties ( sp-44006 ) stirs pleasant memories with well-known songs of that day , and johnny keating's kombo gives forth with tingling jazz in percussive moods ( sp-44005 ) .
there is an extraordinary sense of presence in all of these recordings , apparently obtained at least in part by emphasizing the middle and high frequencies .
all of the releases , however , are recorded at a gratifyingly high level , with resultant masking of any surface noise .
many hollywood films manage somehow to be authentic , but not realistic .
almost every film bearing the imprimatur of hollywood is physically authentic -- in fact , impeccably so .
the major studios maintain a cadre of film librarians and research specialists who look to this matter .
but , alas , the authenticity seems to stop at the set's edge .
the storyline , in sort , is wildly unrealistic .
but except for a vague adherence to the basic storyline -- i.e. , that ruth remained with naomi and finally wound up with boaz -- the film version has little to do with the bible .
earlier this month edward r. murrow , director of the united states information agency , came to hollywood and had dinner with more than 100 leaders of the motion picture industry .
he intimated that they weren't doing the country much good in the cold war .
`` in many corners of the globe '' , he said , `` the major source of impressions about this country are in the movies they meet .
yet for much of the globe , hollywood is just that -- prime , if not sole , source of knowledge .
francois d'albert , hungarian-born violinist who made his new york debut three years ago , played a return engagement last night in judson hall .
his pianist was donald jenni , a faculty member at depaul university .
in vying with him , mr. d'albert also seemed to be overdriving his tone .
brahm's sonata in a , although also vigorous , stood up well under the two artists' strong , large-scale treatment .
he made the most of the long brahmsian phrases , and by the directness and drive of his playing gave the work a handsome performance .
the title refers to the nickname given his wife by the composer , who is also a member of the national film board of canada .
they might well indicate conjugal felicity , but in musical terms that smack of hollywood .
standard items by sarasate and saint-saens completed the program .
miss xydis has a natural affinity for the keyboard , and in the twenty years since her debut here she has gained the authority and inner assurance that lead to audience control .
since she also has considerable technical virtuosity and a feeling for music in the romantic tradition , miss xydis gave her listeners a good deal of pleasure .
the second half of her program was devoted to russian composers of this century .
the rachmaninoff prelude no. 12 , op. 32 , for instance , gave her an opportunity to exploit one of her special facilities -- the ability to produce fine deep-sounding bass tones while contrasting them simultaneously with fine silver filagree in the treble .
and the prokofieff seventh sonata had the combination of romanticism and modern bravura that prokofieff needs .
haydn's sonata in e minor , which was unfailingly pleasant in sound , and chopin's sonata in b flat minor .
so , what was the deepest music on her program had the poorest showing .
all the generals who held important commands in world war 2 , did not write books .
and the best books by generals were not necessarily the first ones written .
it is `` defeat into victory '' , by field marshal viscount slim .
field marshal slim has abridged it for the benefit of `` those who , finding not so great an attraction in accounts of military moves and counter-moves , are more interested in men and their reactions to stress , hardship and danger '' .
william joseph slim , first viscount slim , former governor general of australia , was the principal british commander in the field during the burma war .
he returned in command of an international army of gurkhas , indians , africans , chinese and british .
`` the forgotten war '' his soldiers called the burma fighting because the war in africa and europe enjoyed priorities in equipment and in headlines .
on the whole this is an interesting and exceptionally well-written book .
he has a pleasant sense of humor and is modest enough to admit mistakes and even `` a cardinal error '' .
he himself seems to be tough , tireless , able and intelligent , more intellectual and self-critical than most soldiers .
`` defeat into victory '' is a dramatic and lively military narrative .
before he could return to burma , field marshal slim had to rally the defeated remnants of a discouraged army and unite them with fresh recruits .
he believed in making inspiring speeches and he made a great many .
for general morale reasons and to encourage the efforts of his supply officers , when food was short for combat troops he cut the rations of his headquarters staff accordingly .
administrative organization and delicate diplomatic relations with top brass -- british , american and chinese ; ;
hospitals ( inadequate ) and nurses ( scanty ) ; ;
logistics and transport ; ;
roads and river barges to be built .
commenting on these and other matters , field marshal slim makes many frank and provocative remarks :
`` the commander has failed in his duty if he has not won victory -- for that is his duty '' .
it depresses them .
field marshal slim is more impressed by the courage of japanese soldiers than he is by the ability of their commanders .
if 500 japanese were ordered to hold a position , we had to kill 495 before it was ours -- and then the last five killed themselves '' .
he is , by background and living standards , better fitted to endure hardship uncomplainingly , to demand less in the way of subsistence or comfort , and to look after himself when thrown on his own resources '' .
actually , the program they sang was at least two-thirds serious and high-minded , and they sang it beautifully .
their singing was well-balanced , clear and , within obvious limitations , extremely pleasing .
but mr. bragg is a remarkably gifted conductor , and the results he has produced with his boys are generally superior .
the latin , for example , was not only clear ; ;
furthermore , there were solid musical virtues in the interpretation of the music .
tempos were lively .
a boy soprano named dixon boyd sang a durante solo motet and a few other passages enchantingly .
the final group included folk songs from back home , stomped out , shouted and chanted with irresistible spirit and in cowboy costume .
the combination proved quite irresistible last night .
a thoroughly ingratiating company it is , and when the final curtain falls you may suddenly realize that you have been sitting with a broad grin on your face all evening .
there is no use at all in trying to follow it dance by dance and title by title , for it has a kind of nonstop format , and moves along in an admirable continuity that demands no pauses for identification .
but under the direction of mira ziminska-sygietynska , who with her late husband founded the organization in 1948 , it has all been put into theatrical form , treated selectively , choreographed specifically for presentation to spectators , and performed altogether professionally .
since the organization was created thirteen years ago , it is obvious that this is not the original company ; ;
the girls are charming children and the men are wonderfully vital and engaging youngsters .
indeed , there are never fewer than eight of them on stage , and that is only for the more intimate numbers .
to pick out particular numbers is something of a problem , but one or two identifiable items are too conspicuously excellent to be missed .
the mazurka choreographed by witold zapala to music from moniuszko's opera , `` strasny dwor' , may be the most beautiful mazurka you are likely ever to see ; ;
and the dances and songs from the tatras contain a magnificent dance for the men .
the theatre-by-the-sea , matunuck , presents `` king of hearts '' by jean kerr and eleanor brooke .
settings by william david roberts .
producer john holmes has chosen a delightful comedy for his season's opener at matunuck in jean kerr's `` king of hearts '' .
the story is of a famous strip cartoonist , an arty individual , whose specialty is the american boy and who adopts a 10-year-old to provide him with fresh idea material .
john heffernan , playing larry larkin , the cartoonist , carries the show in marvelous fashion .
this may be unfortunate , perhaps , from the standpoint of david hedison , providence's contribution to hollywood , who is appearing by special arrangement with 20th century-fox .
he does , and more .
a word should be said for gary morgan , a broadway youngster who , as the adopted son , makes life miserable for nearly everybody and larkin in particular .
on the whole , audiences will like this performance .
the newport playhouse presents `` epitaph for george dillon '' by john osborne and anthony creighton , directed by wallace gray .
the angriest young man in newport last night was at the playhouse , where `` epitaph for george dillon '' opened as the jazz festival closed .
he's mad at a world he did not make .
this is in contrast to the family with whom he boards .
it is into this household , one eroded by irritations that have tortured the souls out of its people , that george dillon enters at the beginning of the play .
by the end of the third act , the artist is dead but the body lingers on , a shell among other shells .
it is awfully talky , for instance , and not all of the talk is terribly impressive .
there is a fine second act , as an example , one in which samuel groom , as dillon , has an opportunity to blaze away in one impassioned passage after another .
just as exciting but in a more technically proficient way is laura stuart , whose complete control of her every movement is lovely to watch .
also fine are sue lawless , as a mother more protective and belligerent than a female spider and just as destructive , harold cherry , as her scratchy spouse , and hildy weissman , as a vegetable in human form .
still , his finale is put together with taste and a most sensitive projection of that pale sustenance , despair .
'' with music and lyrics by frank loesser , directed by christopher hewett , choreography by peter conlow , musical direction by samuel matlowsky .
everybody fell in love with amy again last night at the warwick musical theater , and shelley berman was to blame .
so the audience last night was all ears and eyes just after act 2 , got a rousing opening chorus , `` where's charley ? ?
it is greatly to berman's credit that he made no attempt to outdo ray bolger .
in brief , berman played himself and not bolger .
the whole production this week is fresh and lively .
the ballet work is on the nose , especially in the opening number by `` the new ashmolean marching society and students' conservatory band '' , along with a fiery and sultry brazilian fantasia later .
sparrow-size virginia gibson , with sparkling blue eyes and a cheerful smile , made a suitably perky amy , while melisande congdon , as the real aunt , was positively monumental in the very best gibson girl manner .
'' ought not to be missed .
the broadway theater league of rhode island presents c. edwin knill's and martin tahse's production of `` fiorello ! !
the book is by jerome weidman and george abbott , music by jerry bock , lyrics by sheldon harnick , choreography by peter gennaro , scenery , costumes and lighting by william and jean eckart , musical direction by jack elliott , and the production was directed by mr. abbott .
this is one of the happier events of the season .
i saw `` fiorello ! !
certainly in the matter of principals there is nothing lacking .
then rudy bond was simply grand as ben , the distraught republican party district chieftain .
as for the ladies , they were full of charm , and sincerity , and deep and abiding affection for this hurrying driving , honest , little man .
jen nelson , as thea , his first wife , managed to make that short role impressive .
such fascinating novelties in the score as the fugual treatment of `` on the side of the angels '' and `` politics and poker '' were handled splendidly , and i thought rudy bond and his band of tuneful ward-heelers made `` little tin box '' even better than it was done by the new york cast ; ;
the party at floyd's penthouse gave the `` chorines '' a chance for a nostalgic frolic through all those hackneyed routines which have become a classic choreographic statement of the era's nonsense .
martin tahse has established quite a reputation for himself as a successful stager of touring productions .
the sets are remarkably elaborate for a road-show that doesn't pause long in any one place , and they are devised so that they shift with a minimum of interruption or obtrusiveness .
i'm glad to say there's none of that distraction in this `` fiorello ! !
it has all been done in superb style , and the result is a show which deserves the support of every person hereabouts who enjoys good musical theater .
the cast :
instead -- and not just to prove my objectivity -- i hasten to report that it's a highly amusing film which probably does a fairly accurate job of reporting on the easter vacation shenanigans of collegians down in fort lauderdale , and that it seems to come to grips quite honestly with the moral problem that most commonly vexes youngsters in this age group -- that is to say , sex .
if most of them weren't exactly specific -- well , that's the way it is in life , i guess .
`` where the boys are '' also has a juvenile bounce that makes for a refreshing venture in comedy .
most of the female faces are new , or at least not too familiar .
i was delighted with paula prentiss' comedy performance , which was as fresh and unstilted as one's highest hopes might ask .
the only performance which was too soft for me was that of yvette mimieux , but since someone had to become the victim of despoilers , just to emphasize that such things do happen at these fracases , i suppose this was the attitude the part called for .
to anyone who remembers newport at its less than maximum violence , this view of what the boys and girls do in the springtime before they wing north for the jazz festival ought to prove entertaining .
the superb intellectual and spiritual vitality of william james was never more evident than in his letters .
to both persons and ideas he brought the same delighted interest , the same open-minded relish for what was unique in each , the same discriminating sensibility and quicksilver intelligence , the same gallantry of judgment .
and how he could write ! !
his letter to his daughter on the pains of growing up is surely as trenchant , forthright , and warmly understanding a piece of advice as ever a grown-up penned to a sensitive child , and with just the right tone of unpatronizing good humor .
miss hardwick speaks of his `` superb gift for intellectual friendship '' , and it is certainly a joy to see the intellectual life lived so free from either academic aridity or passionate dogmatism .
it holds an equally valuable lesson for a society where the word `` intellectual '' has become a term of opprobrium to millions of well-meaning people who somehow imagine that it must be destructive of the simpler human virtues .
of another colleague , george santayana , he could write : `` the great event in my life recently has been the reading of santayana's book .
writing to his colleague george herbert palmer -- `` glorious old palmer '' , as he addresses him -- james says that if only the students at harvard could really understand royce , santayana , palmer , and himself and see that their varying systems are `` so many religions , ways of fronting life , and worth fighting for '' , then harvard would have a genuine philosophic universe .
the world might ring with the struggle , if we devoted ourselves exclusively to belaboring each other '' .
to james this vision never quite came , despite his appreciation of it in others .
but why need one reply to everything and everybody ? ?
all polemic of ours should , i believe , be either very broad statements of contrast , or fine points treated singly , and as far as possible impersonally .
here again ' god will know his own ' '' .
the primitive-eclogue quality of his drawings , akin to that of graffiti scratched on a cave wall , is equally well known .
the one unifying note , if any , is sounded in the initial article entitled : `` how to get through the day '' .
`` the tyranny of trivia '' suggests arbitrary alphabetical associations to induce slumber .
some of thurber's curative methods involve strong potions of mixed metaphor , malapropism , and gobbledygook and are recommended for use only in extreme cases .
`` how the kooks crumble '' features an amusingly accurate take-off on sneaky announcers who attempt to homogenize radio-tv commercials , and `` the watchers of the night '' is a veritable waking nightmare .
james , he remarks in a letter to a friend , `` is attempting the impossible namely , to produce upon the reader , as a painting produces upon the gazer , a number of superimposed , simultaneous impressions .
equally penetrating in its fashion is the following remark by a lady in the course of a literary conversation : `` so much has already been written about everything that you can't find out anything about it '' .
who but thurber can be counted on to glean such nectareous essences ? ?
`` one of them banged the sash of the window nearest my bed around midnight in july and i leaped out of sleep and out of bed .
' thank god for that ' , i said ; ;
in a sense , perhaps , thurber is indebted artistically to the surrealist painter ( was it salvador dali ? ?
that is , it is literally a picture window : you don't see into the viscera ; ;
this is something like what thurber's best effects are like , if i am not mistaken .
in his concluding paragraph he writes : `` the devoted writer of humor will continue to try to come as close to truth as he can '' .
the latest low is a puzzler .
he is at his usual best in exposing the shams and self-deceptions of political and diplomatic life in the fifties .
but there is a difference between the present volume and the early low .
but there was terror in the thirties when the nazis were on the loose and in those days low struck like lightning .
it might be argued that the communists are less inhuman than the nazis and furnish the artist with drama in a lower key .
the communists wield a power unknown to hitler .
this is drama enough .
in the thirties we would not face our enemy ; ;
now we have stood up to the communists ; ;
or does the reason for less jovian drawings lie elsewhere ? ?
he writes , `` confucius held that in times of stress one should take short views -- only up to lunchtime '' .
dulles ? ?
mccarthy ? ?
suez ? ?
stalin's death , churchill's farewell to public life , hillary and tensing on everest , quemoy and matsu -- all subjects for a noble anger or an accolade .
their eisenhower is insubstantial .
he often drew the bomb .
and khrushchev turned out to be prime copy for the most witty caricaturist of them all .
look in this book for weak mortals and only on occasion for virtues and vices on the heroic scale .
a gray fox with a patch on one eye -- confidence man , city slicker , lebensraum specialist -- tries to take over catfish bend in this third relaxed allegory from mr. burman's refreshing louisiana animal community .
but like all despots , as he builds his following from among the gullible , he grows more threatening toward those who won't follow -- such solid citizens as doc raccoon ; ;
and the eagle , who leads the bird community when he is not too busy in washington posing for fifty-cent pieces .
( the followers of bullies invariably are aggrieved about the very things they plan to do to others .
and pretty soon gray fox is announcing that he won't have anyone around that's against him , and setting out to break his second territorial treaty with the birds .
he may have a point in urging that decadent themes be given fewer prizes .
in substance they lie somewhere between the southern dialect animal stories of joel chandler harris ( uncle remus ) and the polished , witty fables of james thurber .
it combines qualities that are seldom found in one work : scrupulous scholarship , a fund of personal experience , a sense of drama and characterization and a broad grasp of the era's great historical issues .
the author possesses an uncommonly fine english style , and he is dealing with subjects of vast importance that are highly topical for our time .
mr. kennan takes careful account of every mitigating circumstance in recalling the historical atmosphere in which mistaken decisions were taken .
after all , alger hiss , subsequently convicted of perjury in denying that he gave secret state department documents to soviet agents , was at yalta .
one item in this unhappy scheme was to have germany policed exclusively by its continental neighbors , among whom only the soviet union possessed real military strength .
mr. kennan sums up his judgment of what went wrong this way :
`` you see , first of all and in a sense as the source of all other ills , the unshakeable american commitment to the principle of unconditional surrender : the tendency to view any war in which we might be involved not as a means of achieving limited objectives in the way of changes in a given status quo , but as a struggle to the death between total virtue and total evil , with the result that the war had absolutely to be fought to the complete destruction of the enemy's power , no matter what disadvantages or complications this might involve for the more distant future '' .
a veteran diplomat with an extraordinary knowledge of russian language , history and literature , kennan recalls how , at the time of hitler's attack on the soviet union in 1941 , he penned a private note to a state department official , expressing the hope that `` never would we associate ourselves with russian purposes in the areas of eastern europe beyond her own boundaries '' .
with justified bitterness the author speaks of `` what seems to me to have been an inexcusable body of ignorance about the nature of the russian communist movement , about the history of its diplomacy , about what had happened in the purges , and about what had been going on in poland and the baltic states '' .
no wonder khrushchev's first message to president kennedy was a wistful desire for the return of the `` good old days '' of roosevelt .
the first of these involved the replacement of the tsar by a liberal provisional government in march , 1917 ; ;
as kennan shows , the judgment of the allied governments about what was happening in russia was warped by the obsession of defeating germany .
they attributed everything that went wrong in russia to german influence and intrigue .
as the author very justly says :
the scope and significance of this intervention have been grossly exaggerated by communist propaganda ; ;
plebian dictators
on stalin :
a man apparently foreign to the very experience of love , without mercy or pity ; ;
a man whose hand was set against all that could not be useful to him at the moment ; ;
''
`` behind that charlie chaplin moustache and that truant lock of hair that always covered his forehead , behind the tirades and the sulky silences , the passionate orations and the occasional dull evasive stare , behind the prejudices , the cynicism , the total amorality of behavior , behind even the tendency to great strategic mistakes , there lay a statesman of no mean qualities : shrewd , calculating , in many ways realistic , endowed -- like stalin -- with considerable powers of dissimulation , capable of playing his cards very close to his chest when he so desired , yet bold and resolute in his decisions , and possessing one gift stalin did not possess : the ability to rouse men to fever pitch of personal devotion and enthusiasm by the power of the spoken word '' .
and in a concluding chapter about america's stance in the contemporary world , one senses certain misplacements of emphasis and a failure to come to grips with the baffling riddle of our time : how to deal with a wily and aggressive enemy without appeasement and without war .
mr. kennan , who has recently abandoned authorship for a new round of diplomacy as the recently appointed american ambassador to yugoslavia , is not the only man who finds it easier to portray the past than to prescribe for the future .
the ireland we usually hear about in the theater is a place of bitter political or domestic unrest , lightened occasionally with flashes of native wit and charm .
there is plenty of violence , to be sure , but it is a nice violence and no one gets killed .
this is the tale of one john enright , an american who has accidentally killed a man in the prize ring and is now trying to forget about it in a quiet place where he may become a quiet man .
so enright's courting of the mettlesome ellen is impeded considerably , thereby providing the tale which is told .
then there is a matchmaker , one mikeen flynn , a role for which eddie foy was happily selected .
mr. foy is a joy , having learned his dancing by practicing it until he is practically perfect .
art lund , a fine big actor with a great head of blond hair and a good voice , impersonates enright .
joan fagan , a fiery redhead who can impress you that she has a temper whether she really has one or not , plays ellen , and sings the role very well , too .
she fits into the general scheme well enough .
she has a good , firm delivery of songs and adds to the solid virtues of the evening .
and in the role of will danaher , philip bosco roars and sneers sufficiently to intimidate not only one american but the whole british army , if he chose .
the ballads are sweet and sad , and the music generally competent .
`` a toast to the bride '' , sung by clarence nordstrom , playing a character called old man toomey , is quite simple , direct and touching .
so is that of the limber company of lasses who whirl and glide and quickstep under jack cole's expert choreographic direction .
rouben ter-arutunian , in his stage settings , often uses the scrim curtain behind which mr. cole has placed couples or groups who sing and set the mood for the scenes which are to follow .
we can all breathe more easily this morning -- more easily and joyously , too -- because joshua logan has turned the stage show , `` fanny '' , into a delightful and heart-warming film .
more than the fans of pagnol's old films and of their heroic star , the great raimu , were looking askance at the project .
but now the task is completed and the uncertainty resolved with the opening of the english-dialogue picture at the music hall yesterday .
some of the new york philharmonic musicians who live in the suburbs spent yesterday morning digging themselves free from snow .
but , after a fifteen-minute delay , the substantially complete philharmonic assembled on stage for the afternoon's proceedings .
it was an excellent concert .
their collaboration in the beethoven second symphony was lucid , intelligent and natural sounding .
the music sang nicely , sprinted evenly when necessary , was properly accented and balanced .
fortunate for the music itself , it is not too frequent a visitor ; ;
mr. paray resisted the temptation to over-emphasize the melodic elements of the score .
his interpretation was a model of refinement and accuracy .
mr. skolovsky's approach to the concerto was bold , sweeping and tonally percussive .
an impressive technician , mr. skolovsky has fine rhythm , to boot .
it tends to be hard and colorless .
it is , after all , a non-romantic work ( even with the big , juicy melody of the second movement ) ; ;
but granted all this , one still would have liked to have heard a little more tonal nuance than mr. skolovsky supplied .
mr. skolovsky fully deserved the warm reception he received .
this was composed last year as a salute to the automobile industry .
it runs a little more than ten minutes , is workmanlike , busy , methodical and featureless .
and so , of course , it is a fan's opera as well .
so the plot creaks , the sets are decaying , the costumes are pre-historic , the orchestra was sloppy and not very well connected with what the singers were doing .
one of those parts is that of evil , evil barnaba , the spy .
he has the temperament and the stage presence for a rousing villain and he sang with character and strong tone .
regina resnik as laura and cesare siepi as alvise also were new to the cast , but only with respect to this season ; ;
laura is a good role for miss resnik , and she gave it force , dramatic color and passion .
with a few telling strokes he characterized alvise magnificently .
his singing was strong and musical ; ;
eileen farrell in the title role , mignon dunn as la cieca and richard tucker as enzo were holdovers from earlier performances this season , and all contributed to a vigorous performance .
`` melodious birds sing madrigals '' saith the poet and no better description of the madrigaling of the deller consort could be imagined .
stereo bgs 5031 ) is a good sample of the special , elegant art of english madrigal singing .
the english have managed to hold onto their madrigal tradition better than anyone else .
even after elizabethan traditions were weakened by the cromwellian interregnum , the practice of singing together -- choruses , catches and glees -- always flourished .
early interest
as a result no comparable literature of the period is better known and better studied nor more often performed than the english madrigal .
there is an almost instrumental quality to their singing , with a tendency to lift out important lines and make them lead the musical texture .
claude jannequin's vocal description of a battle ( the french equivalents of tarantara , rum-tum-tum , and boom-boom-boom are very picturesque ) is lots of fun , and the singers get a sense of grace and shape into other chansons by jannequin and lassus .
nevertheless , the musicality , accuracy and infectious charm of these performances , excellently reproduced , make it an attractive look-see at the period .
texts and translations are provided .
the elements of elegance and color in jannequin are strong french characteristics .
in france , it remained always more picturesque , more dancelike , more full of flavor .
both composers turn up on new imports from france .
they specialize in out-of-the-way items and old french music naturally occupies a good deal of their attention .
the concerts -- nos. 2 , 6 , 9 , 10 and 14 are represented -- are really closer to chamber suites than to concertos in the italian sense .
couperin also turns up along with some lesser-known contemporaries on a disk called musique francaise du 18e siecle ( bam ld 060 ) .
what is interesting about these chamber works here is how they all reveal the aspect of french music that was moving toward the rococo .
if couperin shows the fashionable trend , the others do so all the more .
rameau's six concerts en sextuor , recorded by l'orchestre de chambre pierre menet ( bam ld 046 ) , turn out to be harpsichord pieces arranged for strings apparently by the composer himself .
maitres allemands des 17e et 18e siecles contains music by pachelbel , buxtehude , rosenmueller and telemann , well performed by the ensemble instrumental sylvie spycket ( bam ld 035 ) .
works by j. c. bach , anton craft , joseph haydn , giuseppe sammartini , comenico dragonetti and j. g. janitsch were performed by seven instrumentalists including anabel brieff , flutist , josef marx , oboist , and robert conant , pianist and harpsichordist .
thus there was really an excess of eighteenth-century charm as one of these light-weight pieces followed another on saturday night .
the performances were variable , those of the full ensemble being generally satisfying , some by soloists proving rather trying .
they were accompanied by anna mi lee , pianist .
songs from china and japan were reserved exclusively for miss mao , who is a native of china , and those of the british isles were sung by mr. fuller , who is english by birth .
on the contrary , miss mao and mr. fuller chose many of their arrangements from the works of composers such as mendelssohn , dvorak , canteloube , copland and britten .
the performances were assured , communicative and pleasingly informal .
chabrier's little one-act operetta , presented yesterday afternoon at town hall , is a fragile , precious little piece , very french , not without wit and charm .
the humor of the situation can be imagined .
what a silly , artificial way of life , chabrier and his librettists chuckle .
chabrier's delightful music stands just at the point where the classical , rationalist tradition , ( handed down to chabrier largely in the form of operetta and salon music ) becomes virtually neo-classicism .
the simple , clever production was also able to tread the thin line between those extremes .
yes , arlene is her name ; ;
benita valente was delightful as the young wife and john parella was amusing as the tutor who failed to do all his tutoring .
it was paired with a darius milhaud opera , `` the poor sailor '' , set to a libretto by jean cocteau , a kind of grand guignol by the sea , a sailor returns , unrecognized , and gets done in by his wife .
had a funny experience at newport yesterday afternoon .
i make this observation about the lady , miss judy garland , because she brought up the subject herself in telling a story about a british female reporter who flattered her terribly in london recently and then wrote in the paper the next day :
she's not chubby .
she's fat '' .
certainly not the largest afternoon audience newport has ever had at a jazz concert and the most attentive and quiet .
and judy sang the lovely old familiar things which seemed , at times , a blessed relief from the way-out compositions of the progressive jazzmen who have dominated these proceedings .
'' , `` puttin' on the ritz '' , `` how long has this been going on ? ?
miss garland is not only one of the great singers of our time but she is one of the superb showmen .
she had held to the letter of her contract and didn't come onto the stage until well after 4 p.m. , the appointed hour , although the music at newport people had tried to get the program underway at 3 .
along about 4:30 , just when it was getting to be about time to turn the audience over and toast them on the other side , judy came on singing , in a short-skirted blue dress with a blue and white jacket that flapped in the wind .
in her first song she waved away one encroaching photographer who dared approach the throne unbidden and thereafter the boys with the cameras had to unsheathe their 300 mm. lenses and shoot at extreme range .
but it didn't take judy garland , showman , long to realize that this sort of thing was par for the course at newport and that you have to learn to live with it .
and time after time she really belted out her songs .
to her partisan audience , such picayune haggling would have seemed nothing more than a critic striving to hold his franchise ; ;
they were rewarded with splendid , exciting , singing .
the audience wouldn't let her leave until it had heard `` over the rainbow '' -- although the fellow that kept crying for `` get happy '' had to go home unhappy , about that item anyway .
all went home happy except the newport police , who feared that the throng departing at 6:35 might meet head-on the night crowd drawing nigh , and those deprived of their happy hour at the cocktail bar .
this was perhaps symbolic of the jazz of the evening -- flashes in the distance , but no storm .
mulligan's band has been infected with his solid sense of swing , and what it does seems far more meaningful than most of the noise generated by the big concert aggregations .
for subtle swinging rhythms , i could admire intensely mulligan's version of `` weep '' , and the fireworks went on display in `` 18 carrots for robert '' , a sax tribute to johnny hodges .
unfortunately , blakey doesn't choose to work much of the time in this vein .
what we did get , however , was impressive .
miss vaughan was back in top form , somehow mellowed and improved with the passage of time -- like a fine wine .
jazz three open program
this was a continuation of a good idea which was first tried out saturday night when the eddie stack group , also local talent , went on first .
it prevents late-comers from missing some of the people they have come a long way to hear , and it gives the resident musicians a chance to perform before the famous newport audience .
julie wilson sings
she frosted the cake with the always reliable `` bill bailey '' .
getz is a difficult musician to categorize .
in this he is sticking with tradition , however far removed from it he may seem to be .
george shearing took over with his well disciplined group , a sextet consisting of vibes , guitar , bass , drums , shearing's piano and a bongo drummer .
shearing , himself , seemed to me to be playing better piano than in his recent newport appearances .
divided almost equally into two parts , it consisted of `` the evolution of the blues '' , narrated by jon hendricks , who had presented it last year at the monterey , calif. , jazz festival , and an hour-long session of maynard ferguson and his orchestra , a blasting big band .
tracing the blues from its african roots among the slaves who were brought to this country and the west indies , he stressed the close relationship between the early jazz forms and the music of the negro churches .
to help him on this religious aspect of primitive jazz he had `` big '' miller , as a preacher-singer and hannah dean , gospel-singer , while oscar brown jr. , an extremely talented young man , did a slave auctioneer's call , a field-hands' work song , and a beautifully sung negro lullaby , `` brown baby '' , which was one of the truly moving moments of the festival .
demonstrating the primitive african rhythmic backgrounds of the blues was michael babatunde olatunji , who plays such native drums as the konga and even does a resounding job slapping his own chest .
hendricks had billy mitchell , tenor sax ; ;
jimmy witherspoon , blues singer ( and a good one ) , and the ike isaacs trio , which has done such wonderful work for two afternoons now , helping him with the musical examples .
pianists who are serious about their work are likely to know the interesting material contained in schubert's sonatas .
he has chosen sonata op. 53 in aj .
perhaps one of the reasons these sonatas are not programmed more often is their great length .
his technique is ample and his musical ideas are projected beautifully .
the group is superbly trained .
do you say chantey , as if the word were derived from the french word chanter , to sing , or do you say shanty and think of a roughly built cabin , which derives its name from the french-canadian use of the word chantier , with one of its meanings given as a boat-yard ? ?
either way , the robert shaw chorus sings them in fine style with every colorful word and its musical frame spelled out in terms of agreeable listening .
the london label offers an operatic recital by ettore bastianini , a baritone whose fame is international .
`` signal '' is choreographed for three male dancers to an electronic score by alwin nikolais .
program note reads as follows :
this urgent visage beckons us '' .
indeed , both `` journal '' and `` signal '' qualify as instructive catalogues of modern-dance calisthenics .
one frequently has the feeling that the order of their movement combinations could be transposed without notable loss of effect , there is too little suggestion of organic relationship and development .
but it may be , also , that he is merely more mindful of athletics than of esthetics at the present time .
' an american journey '
choreographed by mr. nagrin , the work filled the second half of a program that also offered the first new york showing of miss tamiris' `` once upon a time '' as well as her `` women's song '' and mr. nagrin's `` indeterminate figure '' .
mr. nagrin has described four `` places '' , each with its scenery and people , added two `` diversions '' , and concluded with `` a toccata for the young '' , a refreshingly underplayed interpretation of rock'n'roll dancing .
but we need not mind too much , because mr. nagrin has expressed it through movement that is diverting and clever almost all the way .
unfortunately , the man and woman were not made to appear very interesting at the outset and the menacing figures failed to make them any more so .
the music here , russell smith's `` tetrameron '' , sounded good .
the symphony of the air , greatly assisted by van cliburn , last night got its seven-concert beethoven cycle at carnegie hall off to a good start .
this news , announced by jerome toobin , the orchestra's administrative director , brought applause from the 2,800 persons who filled the hall .
this season the orchestra has already taken a step toward the suburbs in that it is giving six subscription concerts for the orchestral society of westchester in the county center in white plains .
the concertos that van cliburn has been associated with in new york since his triumphant return from russia in 1958 have been the tchaikovsky , the rachmaninoff third , and the prokofieff third .
the young texas pianist can make great chords ring out as well as anyone , so last night the massive sonorities of this challenging concerto were no hazard to him .
the elements that did were the introspective slow movement , the beautiful transition to the third movement , and the passages of filigree that laced through the bigger moments of the opening movement and the final rondo .
alfred wallenstein , the conductor , sensitive accompanist that he is , picked up the idea and led the orchestra here with a sense of brooding , poetic mystery .
mr. wallenstein , who will lead all of the concerts in the cycle , also conducted the `` leonore '' overture no. 3 and the fourth symphony .
and although there was plenty of vigor in the performance , the ensemble was at its best when the playing was soft and lyrical , yet full of the suppressed tension that is one of the hallmarks of beethoven .
there are times when one suspects that the songs that are dropped from musical shows before they reach broadway may really be better than many of those that are left in .
in the more casually constructed musicals of the nineteen twenties and nineteen thirties there would seem to have been less reason for eliminating a song of merit .
deemed too static when it was first heard in `` lady be good '' in philadelphia in 1924 , it was dropped from the score .
it finally reached broadway in the second and successful version of `` strike up the band '' in 1929 .
)
like the gershwins , richard rodgers and lorenz hart were loath to let a good song get away from them .
several of these double entries have been collected by ben bagley and michael mcwhinney , along with rodgers and hart songs that disappeared permanently en route to new york and others that reached broadway but have not become part of the constantly heard rodgers and hart repertory , in a delightfully refreshing album , rodgers and hart revisited ( spruce records , 505 fifth avenue , new york ) .
dorothy loudon's raucous listing of the attractions `` at the roxy music hall '' from `` i married an angel '' ; ;
altogether fifteen virtually unknown rodgers and hart songs are sung by a quintet of able vocalists .
.
stereo lso 1066 ) that has some entertaining moments , although it is scarcely as inventive as the praise elicited by the show might lead one to expect .
rudy vallee , who shares star billing with mr. morse , makes only two appearances .
in general , mr. loesser has done a more consistent job as lyricist than he has as composer .
stereo lso 1065 ) , but in this case it is the music that stands above the lyrics .
resourceful voices
mr. herman has managed to mix musical ideas drawn from israel and the standard american ballad style in a manner that stresses the basic tunefulness of both idioms .
stereo swao 1643 ) , a saga of life on a cruise ship that is not apt to be included among mr. coward's more memorable works .
elaine stritch , who sings with a persuasively warm huskiness , belts some life into most of her songs , but the other members of the cast sound as lukewarm as mr. coward's songs .
it simply isn't , not by a long shot .
make no mistake , this gorky studio drama is a respectable import -- aptly grave , carefully written , performed and directed .
told strictly from the viewpoint of the russian conquerors , the film compassionately peers over the shoulders of a smitten soviet couple , at both sides of the conflict's aftermath .
tenderly and rather tediously , the camera rivets on the abrupt , deep love of a pretty nurse and a uniformed teacher , complicated by nothing more than a friend they don't want to hurt .
not that the picture is superficial .
one high-up camera shot is magnificent , as the germans straggle from a cathedral , dotting a huge , cobblestone square , and drop their weapons .
211 pages .
a5 .
`` ring of bright water '' by gavin maxwell is just that -- a haunting , warmly personal chronicle of a man , an otter , and a remote cottage in the scottish west highlands .
the place is camusfearna , the site of a long-vanished sea-village opposite the isle of skye .
how maxwell recounts his first coming to camusfearna , his furnishing the empty house with beach-drift , the subtle changes in season over ten years , is a moving experience .
but it isn't .
it may sound extravagant to say that there has never been a more engaging animal in all literature .
mij , as his owner was soon to learn , had strange , inexplicable habits .
he preferred sleeping in bed with his head on a pillow .
given a small ball or marbles , he would invent games and play by himself for hours .
a year and a day of this idyll is described for the reader , one in which not only discovery of a new world of personality is charted , but self-discovery as well .
`` to be quite alone where there are no other human beings is sharply exhilarating ; ;
now , with the increasing interdependence between himself and mij came a knowledge of an obscure need , that of being trusted implicitly by some creature .
we were his trinity , and he behaved towards us with a mixture of trust and abuse , passion and irritation .
yet the idyll ended .
man , to whom mij gave endless affection and fealty , was responsible in the form of a road worker with a pickaxe who somehow becomes an abstract symbol of the savage in man .
one is not sure who emerges as the main personality of this book -- mijbil , with his rollicking ways , or maxwell himself , poet , portrait painter , writer , journalist , traveller and zoologist , sensitive but never sentimental recorder of an unusual way of life , in a language at once lyrical and forceful , vivid and unabashed .
now gavin maxwell's ring of bright water has widened to enchant the world .
-- the performances of the comedie francaise are the most important recent events in the new york theater .
on the contrary , the old plays are continually being reinterpreted , and each new production of a classic has only a brief history at the comedie .
the directors of the comedie do not respond to adverse notices in as docile and subservient a manner as the broadway producers who , in two instances this season , closed their plays after one performance .
in france , novel approaches to the classic french plays are frequently attempted .
so far as i know , the comedie has never put moliere's people in the costumes of the 20th century , but they do reinterpret plays and characters .
the new `` phedre '' was done in 17th century setting , instead of ancient greek ; ;
the speaking of the lines seemed excessively slow and stately , possibly in an effort to capture the spirit of 17th century elegance .
the new `` school for wives '' was interpreted according to a principle that is becoming increasingly common in the playing of classic comedy -- the idea of turning some obviously ludicrous figure into a tragic character .
apparently , jouvet and ledoux attempted just these dissimilar approaches in the role of arnolphe in `` the school for wives '' .
by that time , he seemed to have dropped the tragic playing of the last moments of the comedy .
the part can lend itself to serious treatment ; ;
accordingly , at the comedie last year , jean meyer played a sympathetic arnolphe and drew criticism for turning the comedy into a tragedy .
wisely , the comedie has brought moliere's `` tartuffe '' on its tour and has left `` the school for wives '' at home .
jouvet played him as a sincere zealot , and ledoux , at the comedie , made him a gross buffoon , or so the historians tell us .
his tartuffe observes the golden mean .
but his heavenward glances and his pious speeches are not merely perfunctory ; ;
occasionally , seigner draws some justly deserved laughs by his quick shifts from one personality to another .
his normal specialty is playing the good-natured old man , frequently stupid or deluded but never mean or sly .
seigner is the dean of the company , the oldest actor in point of continuous service .
we are often told that the comedie has , unfortunately , life-contracts with old actors who are both mediocre and lazy , drawing their pay without much acting but probably doing real service to the comedie by staying off the stage .
among his other parts are the leads in `` the bourgeois gentleman '' and `` the imaginary invalid '' .
here some innovation is attempted .
hirsch's scapin is healthy , cheerful , energetic , revelling in his physical agility and his obvious superiority to the young gentlemen whom he serves .
and surely his scapin has a fresh directness , a no-nonsense quality that seems to make him his own master and nobody's servant .
there is hardly a jazz guitarist in the business today who doesn't owe something to django .
he told once of how he switched his style of playing to jazz after listening to two old armstrong records he bought in the flea market in paris .
django , who was born jean baptiste reinhardt in belgium and who died in 1953 in france , was an extraordinary man .
and this was before he began to play his startlingly beautiful jazz .
`` djangology '' , made up of tracks he recorded with stephane grappelly and the quintet of the hot club of france .
he is one of the few men in history who plays jazz on a violin .
`` i saw stars '' , `` lover man '' , `` menilmontant '' and `` swing 42 '' .
kid ory , the trombonist chicken farmer , is also one of the solid anchor points of jazz .
his horn has blown loud and clear across the land for more years than he cares to remember .
he is starred against alvin alcorn , trumpet ; ;
cedric haywood , piano ; ;
wellman braud , bass , and minor hall , drums .
all this will serve to show off the ory style in fine fashion and is a must for those who want to collect elements of the old-time jazz before it is too late to lay hands on the gems .
his portion of the program -- and a big portion it was -- consisted of half the major nineteenth-century concertos for the violin : to wit , the mendelssohn and the tchaikovsky .
mr. elman is 70 years old .
but , with all due respects and allowances , it must truthfully be said that what they heard was more syrupy than sweet , more mannered than musical .
so was the playing .
the creston is purely a potboiler , with spanish , english , french and american dances mixed into the stew .
like his sweet , attractive romanza , it belongs to what the composer called his `` non-dissonant ( mostly ) '' category of works .
all these -- potboilers or no -- provided a welcome breath of fresh air in the form of lively , colorful , unstuffy works well suited for the great out-of-doors .
we have alfredo antonini to thank for this healthy change of diet as well as the lively performances of the stadium symphony .
since an objective viewer might well conclude that this is not a situation that would often arise , the film's extensive discussion of the problem seems , at best , superfluous .
with julie london enacting the central role with husky-voiced sincerity , the longsuffering heroine is at least attractive .
anthony steel , as the husband , is a jealous type who argues against her course and sues for divorce , labeling her action adulterous .
after a protracted , hysterical trial scene more notable for the frankness of its language than for dramatic credibility , the jury , to no one's surprise , leaves the legal question unresolved .
so was the audience .
-- for its final change of bill in its london season , the leningrad state kirov ballet chose tonight to give one of those choreographic miscellanies known as a `` gala program '' at the royal opera house , covent garden .
and please it did , in every sense of the word , for it had the audience shouting much of the time in a manner far from typical of london audiences .
alexandre livshitz repeated a fantastic technical bit from the closing number , `` taras bulba '' , but even then there was a substantial number of diehards who seemed determined not to go home at all .
but for all the manifest intention to `` show off '' , this was a circus with a difference , for instead of descending in quality to what is known as a popular level , it added further to the evidence that this is a very great dancing company .
it is danced by some thirty-five men and no women , and it contains everything in the books -- lusty comedy , gregarious cavorting , and tricks that only madmen or russians would attempt to make the human body perform .
at the other extreme in character was the half-hour excerpt from the petipa-minkus ballet `` bayaderka '' , which opened the evening .
and why do we in the west know so few of his ballets ? ?
the ensemble enters in a long adagio passage that is of fantastic difficulty , as well as loveliness , and adagio is the general medium of the piece .
sergei vikulov , as the lone male , meets the competition well with some brilliant hits , but the work is designed to belong to the ladies .
they consisted of a new arrangement of `` nutcracker '' excerpts danced stunningly by irina kolpakova and mr. sokolev , with a large ensemble ; ;
two of those poetic adagios in greek veils ( and superb esthetic acrobacy ) by alla osipenko and igor chernishev in one case and inna zubkovskaya and yuri kornevey in the other ; ;
a stirring `` flames of paris '' pas de deux by xenia ter-stepanova and alexandre pavlovsky , and a lovely version of fokine's `` le cygne '' by olga moiseyeva , which had to be repeated .
it was quite an evening ! !
as the pace of the quadrennial american political festival accelerated , mr. white took more notes .
he asked intimate questions and got frank answers from the members of what he calls the candidates' `` in-groups '' .
those of us who read the papers may think we know a good deal about that election ; ;
this is a remarkable book and an astonishingly interesting one .
mr. white , who is only a competent novelist , is a brilliant reporter .
a lesson in politics
and as an introduction to american politics it is highly educational .
he then switches back to a consideration of the seven principal presidential hopefuls : five democrats -- senator hubert h. humphrey , senator stuart symington , senator lyndon b. johnson , adlai e. stevenson and mr. kennedy -- and two republicans -- governor rockefeller and mr. nixon .
in the process he writes at length about many related matters : the importance of race , religion , local tradition , bosses , organizations , zealous volunteers and television .
he frequently cites intimate details that seem to come straight from the horse's mouth , from numerous insiders and from mr. kennedy himself ; ;
`` rarely in american history has there been a political campaign that discussed issues less or clarified them less '' , says mr. white .
although a skillful politician and a courageous and honest man , mr. nixon , mr. white believes , ignored his own top-level planners , wasted time and effort in the wrong regions , missed opportunities through indecision and damaged his chances on television .
he trusts only himself and his wife .
he was above all a friend seeker , almost pathetic in his eagerness to be liked .
the least inspiring candidate since alfred m. landon '' .
calm , dignified , composed , `` superbly eloquent '' , mr. kennedy always knew everything about everybody .
every decision was made quickly on sound grounds .
mr. kennedy did not neglect to cultivate the personal friendship of reporters .
pressures portrayed
and he makes many interesting comments .
`` the root question in american politics is always : who's the man to see ? ?
but to operate in american politics one must go a step further -- one must build a bridge to such names , establish a warmth , a personal connection '' .
`` all platforms are meaningless : the program of either party is what lies in the vision and conscience of the candidate the party chooses to lead it '' .
miss pons is certainly not 70 -- no singer ever is -- and yet the rewards of the evening again lay more in paying tribute to a great figure of times gone by than in present accomplishments .
no orchestra , however , could be expected to follow a singer through quite as many adventures with pitch as miss pons encountered last night .
one such moment came in the breathtaking way miss pons sang the cadenza to meyerbeer's `` shadow song '' .
on the whole , however , one must wonder at just what it is that forces a beloved artist to besmirch her own reputation as time marches inexorably on .
mr. verreau began shakily , with a voice that tended toward an unpleasant whiteness when pushed beyond middle volume .
radio is easily outdistancing television in its strides to reach the minority listener .
the mushrooming of fm outlets , offering concerts ( both jazz and classical ) , lectures , and other special events , is a phenomenon which has had a fair amount of publicity .
of course , the nonwhite listener does his share of television watching .
but the growing number of negro-appeal radio stations , plus evidence of strong listener support of their advertisers , give time salesmen an impressive argument as they approach new prospects .
at least 60 stations devote all of their time to reaching this audience in about half of the 50 states .
for 10 years sponsor has issued an annual survey of the size and characteristics of the negro market and of successful techniques for reaching this market through radio .
negro population in the u.s. has increased 25 per cent while the white population was growing by 18 per cent .
advertisers are changing their attitudes , both as to the significance of this market and the ways of speaking to it .
futhermore , the station which wants real prestige must lead or participate in community improvement projects , not simply serve on the air .
a year ago the negro radio association was formed to spur research which the 30-odd member stations are sure will bring in more business .
it also brought home proof of something a casual observer might have missed : that more than half of the u.s. negroes live outside the southeastern states .
in new york city , wlib boasts `` more community service programs than any other negro station '' and `` one of the largest negro news staffs in america '' .
recently , wwrl won praise for its expose of particular cases of employment agency deceit .
in all big cities outside the south , and even in small towns within the south , radio stations can be found beaming some or all of their programs at negro listeners .
one question which inevitably crops up is whether such stations have a future in a nation where the negro is moving into a fully integrated status .
advertisers have discovered the tendency of negroes to shop for brand names they have heard on stations catering to their special interests .
what sets negro-appeal programing apart from other radio shows ? ?
rhythm-and-blues mood music ; ;
furthermore , news and special presentations inform the listener about groups , projects , and personalities rarely mentioned on a general-appeal station .
sponsor quotes john mclendon of the mclendon-ebony station group as saying that the southern negro is becoming conscious of quality and `` does not wish to be associated with radio which is any way degrading to his race ; ;
the sociological impact is perhaps most eloquently summed up in this quotation of j. walter carroll of ksan , san francisco :
it will continue to be important as a means of orientation to the negro , seeking to become urbanized , as he tries to make adjustment to the urban life .
presentation of `` the life and times of john sloan '' in the delaware art center here suggests a current nostalgia for human values in art .
from early family portraits , painted before he entered the schools of the pennsylvania academy of the fine arts , the chronology extends to a group of paintings executed in his last year ( 1951 ) and still part of his estate .
few who have painted the scenes around them have done so with so little bitterness .
obviously sloan's early years were influenced by his close friend robert henri .
the dark pigments of the early work were superseded by a brighter palette .
the exhibition presents all phases of sloan's many-sided art .
sloan created such works for newspaper supplements before syndication threw him out of a job and sent him to roam the streets of new york , thereby building for america an incomparable city survey from paintings of mcsorley's saloon to breezy clotheslines on city roofs .
although there are landscapes in the show ( one of the strongest is a vista of `` gloucester harbor '' in 1915 ) , the human element was the compelling factor in sloan's art .
the multifigure `` traveling carnival '' , in which action is vivified by lighting ; ;
not all the paintings , however , are of cities .
the fact that sloan was an extrovert , concerned primarily with what he saw , adds greatly to the value of his art as a human chronicle .
supplementing the actual art are memorabilia -- correspondence , diaries , books from the artist's library , etc. .
to enable students and the public to spot sloan forgeries , the delaware art center ( according to its director , bruce st. john ) will maintain a complete file of photographs of all sloan works , as well as a card index file .
the current exhibition , which remains on view through oct. 29 , has tapped 14 major collections and many private sources .
in a sense , he is offering bonn what its famous son ( who left as a youth ) never did -- the sound of the composer's mature style .
his readings were careful without being fussy , and they were authoritative without being presumptuous .
the d minor sonata , op. 31 no. 2 , introduced by dynamically shaped arpeggios , was most engaging in its moments of quasi-recitative -- single lines in which the fingers seemed to be feeling their way toward the idea to come .
two late sonatas , op. 110 and 111 , were played with similar insight , the disarming simplicities of the op. 111 adagio made plain without ever becoming obvious .
herr riefling , in everything he gave his large beethoven hall audience , proved himself as an interpreter of unobtrusive authority .
herr wangenheim has only recently become the city's music director , and is a young man with a clear flair for the podium .
he might have been hoping , to all appearances , that this relatively sunny symphony , in conjunction with the choral fantasy at the end of the program , could amount to something like the ninth ; ;
the conductor's preoccupation with the business of starting and stopping caused occasional raggedness , as with the first orchestra entrance in the fourth piano concerto , but when he put his deliberations and obsequies aside and let the music move as designed , it did so with plenty of spring .
his was a burgomaster's beethoven , solid and sensible .
the entrance of the stadtisches gesangverein ( bonn's civic chorus ) was worth all the waiting , however , as the young rhenish voices finally brought the music to life .
a tribe in ancient india believed the earth was a huge tea tray resting on the backs of three giant elephants , which in turn stood on the shell of a great tortoise .
but the primitive method of explaining the unknown with what is known bears at least a symbolic resemblance to the methods of modern science .
these keys are the working principles of physics , mathematics and astronomy , principles which are then extrapolated , or projected , to explain phenomena of which we have little or no direct knowledge .
three of these men discussed major theories of the universe while the other acted as a moderator .
dr. w. b. bonnor , reader in mathematics at queen elizabeth college , london ; ;
and dr. g. j. whitrow , reader in applied mathematics at the imperial college of science and technology , london .
the programs were so well received by the british public that the arguments have been published in a totally engrossing little book called , `` rival theories of cosmology '' .
first of all , and this has been calculated by observation , the universe is expanding -- that is , the galaxies are receding from each other at immense speeds .
this expansion has been going on for an estimated eight billion years .
dr. bonnor supports the idea that the universe both expands and contracts , that in several billion years the expansion will slow up and reverse itself and that the contraction will set in .
professor bondi disagrees with the expansion-contraction theory .
for this reason , he says , the density of the universe always remains the same even though the galaxies are zooming away in all directions .
if this is true , then the universe today looks just as it did millions of years ago and as it will look millions of years hence , even though the universe is expanding .
he contends this idea doesn't conflict with experiments on which the principle of conservation of matter and energy is based because some slight error must be assumed in such experiments .
protons and electrons bear opposite electrical charges which make them attract each other , and when they are joined they make up an atom of hydrogen -- the basic building block of matter .
suppose , says dr. lyttleton , the proton has a slightly greater charge than the electron ( so slight it is presently immeasurable ) .
now if one hydrogen atom were placed at the surface of a large sphere of hydrogen atoms , it would be subject both to the gravitation of the sphere and the charge-excess of all those atoms in the sphere .
dr. lyttleton then imagines the universe as a large hydrogen sphere with surface atoms shooting away from it .
fleeting glimpse
several photographs and charts of galaxies help the non-scientist keep up with the discussion , and the smooth language indicates the contributors were determined to avoid the jargon that seems to work its way into almost every field .
presently , the intense absorption of ultra-violet rays in the earth's atmosphere seriously hinders ground observation .
there would seem to be some small solace in the prospect that the missile race between nations is at the same time accelerating the study of the space around us , giving us a long-sought ladder from which to peer at alien regions .
and although the universe may forever defy understanding , it might even now be finding its match in the imagination of man .
highly successful in england before its transfer to new york , most of `` roots '' is as relentlessly dour as the trappings of the small new theater are gaudy .
the burden of mr. wesker's message is that people living close to the soil ( at least in england ) are not the happy , fine , strong , natural , earthy people city-bred intellectuals imagine .
they care no more for politics , says mr. wesker , than they do for a symphony .
they dwell , in short , in the doltish twilight in which peasants and serfs of the past are commonly reported to have lived .
so much untidiness of mind and household does not attract the interest of the theatergoer ( unless he has been living in a gilded palace , perhaps , and wants a real big heap of contrast ) .
now for the good points .
she is just home from a sojourn in london where she has become the sweetheart of a young fellow named ronnie ( we never do see him ) and has been subjected to a first course in thinking and appreciating , including a dose of good british socialism .
beatie , getting no sympathy for her misfortune , soon rallies and finds that although she has lost a lover she has gained her freedom .
there were several fairly good minor portraits in the play , including william hansen's impersonation of a stubborn , rather pathetic father , and katherine squire's vigorous characterization of a farm mother who brooked no hifalutin' nonsense from her daughter , or anyone else .
shakespeare had a word for everything , even for the rain that disrupted wednesday night's `` much ado about nothing '' opening the season of free theatre in central park .
joseph papp , impassioned founder of the festival and director of `` much ado '' , had a vibrant , colorful production under way .
the audience filled all the seats inside the wollman enclosure and overflowed onto the lawns outside the fence .
the simple-minded comedy of dogberry and verges , also familiar in a day that responds easily to jokes skimmed off the top of writers' heads , evoked laughter .
as `` much ado '' turned serious while the insipid claudio rejected hero at the altar , a sprinkle began to fall .
but the rain came more heavily , and men and women in light summer clothes began to depart .
a voice on the loudspeaker system announced that if the rain let up the performance would resume in ten minutes .
some remained in the wollman enclosure , fortified with raincoats or with newspapers to cover their heads .
twenty minutes after the interruption , although it was still raining , the play was resumed at the point in the fourth act where it had been stopped .
in their very first speeches it was clear that shakespeare , like a nostradamus , had foreseen this moment .
replied beatrice : `` yea , and i will weep a while longer '' .
the gallant company completed act 4 , and got through part of act 5 .
if any among the hardy hundreds who sat in the downpour are in doubt about how it comes out , let them take comfort .
the parks department has done an admirable job of preparing the wollman rink for shakespeare .
eldon elder , who designed the stage , also created a gay , spacious set that blended attractively with the park background and shakespeare's lighthearted mood .
elisabeth schwarzkopf sang so magnificently saturday night at hunter college that it seems a pity to have to register any complaints .
schwarzkopf is , of course , schwarzkopf .
if the voice is just a shade less glorious than it used to be , it is still a beautiful instrument , controlled and flexible .
but what has been happening recently might be described as creeping mannerism .
the symptoms saturday night were unmistakable .
there was an extra pause here , a gasp or a sigh there , here and there an extra little twist of a word or note , all in the interest of effect .
there were stunning musical phrases too , and sometimes the deepest kind of musical and poetic absorption and communication .
all the more reason why there should have been no place for the frills ; ;
the dance , dancers and dance enthusiasts ( 8,500 of them ) had a much better time of it at lewisohn stadium on saturday night than all had had two nights earlier , when stadium concerts presented the first of two dance programs .
there was , additionally , a bonus for the saturday-night patrons .
otherwise , the program included , as on thursday , the taras-tchaikovsky `` design for strings '' , the dollar-britten `` divertimento '' , the dollar-de banfield `` the duel '' and the pas de deux from `` the nutcracker '' .
among the other solo ballet dancers of the evening , elisabeth carroll and ivan allen were particularly impressive in their roles in `` the duel '' , a work that depends so much upon the precision and incisiveness of the two principal combatants .
as brother john sellers sang five `` blues '' to the guitar and drum accompaniments of bruce langhorne and shep shepard , mr. ailey and miss de lavallade went through volatile dances that were by turns insinuating , threatening , contemptuous and ecstatic .
he wore the clothes of a laborer , and she was wondrously seductive in a yellow and orange dress .
`` roots of the blues '' may not be for gentle souls , but others should welcome its super-charged impact .
the armchair traveler preserves his illusions '' .
mr. sansom is english , bearded , formidably cultivated , the versatile author of numerous volumes of short stories , of novels and of pieces that are neither short stories nor travel articles but something midway between .
the result is rather wonderful , but so rich as to be indigestible if taken in too thick slices .
most of them were written between 1953 and 1960 and originally appeared in various magazines .
but , even if mr. sansom labors too hard to extract more refinements of meaning and feeling from his travel experiences than the limits of language allow , he still can charm and astound .
mr. sansom actually writes his with a nice ear for a gracefully composed sentence , with an intense relish in all the metaphorical resources of english , with a thick shower of sophisticated , cultural references .
`` i like to sniff a place , and reproduce what it really smells and looks like , its color , its particular kind of life '' .
he ignores guidebook facts .
it is an over-all impression mr. sansom strives for , an impression compounded of visual details , of a savory mixture of smells , of much loving attention to architecture and scenery , of lights and shadows , of intangibles of atmosphere and of echoes of the past .
but no matter what he writes about he brings to his subject his own original mind and his own sensitive reactions .
`` beneath any feeling he has of the good or the evil of the world lies a deeper one of wonder at it all .
this may not be true of many writers , but it certainly is true of mr. sansom .
at the sun and the heat of mediterranean lands , always much brighter and hotter to an englishman than to an american used to summers in new york or kansas city ; ;
and at the infinite variety of london .
he can coin a neat phrase : `` a street spattered with an invigoration of people '' ; ;
after a snowstorm a landscape smelling `` of woodsmoke and clarity '' .
beauty borrowed from afar
how far that pedimented and pillared style has shed its influence mr. sansom reminds us thus :
nice , even if a trifle gaudy .
in recent days there have been extensive lamentations over the absence of original drama on television , but not for years have many regretted the passing of new plays on radio .
yesterday it offered `` poised for violence '' , by jean reavey .
unfortunately , `` poised for violence '' was not the happiest vehicle with which to make the point .
the play's device is to explore society's obsession with disaster and violence through the eyes of a group of artist's models who remain part of someone else's painting rather than just be themselves .
somewhere in mrs. reavey's play there is both protest and aspiration of merit .
moreover , her central figures are so busily fulfilling their multitudinous assignments that none emerges as an arresting individual in his own right or as a provocative symbol of mankind's ills .
which in itself is an immediate reward of the wbai experiment ; ;
a weekly showcase for contemporary music , from the austere archaism of stravinsky to the bleeps and bloops of electronic music , is celebrating its fourth anniversary this month .
the enterprising program is heard saturday afternoons on radio station aj .
the show is programed and written by the station's assistant continuity editor , chuck briefer .
last saturday's interesting melange included ernst toch , karlheinz stockhausen , richard yardumian and a brief excerpt from a new `` space '' opera by the swedish composer , karl-birger blomdahl .
it is commendable that a regularly scheduled hour is set aside for an introduction to the contemporary musical scene .
the moiseyev dance company dropped in at madison square garden last night for the first of four farewell performances before it brings its long american tour to a close .
it is good to see those numbers again .
the amusing `` yurochka '' , in which a hard-to-please young man is given his come-uppance ; ;
the three moldavian dances entitled `` zhok '' ; ;
and the hilarious picture of social life in an earlier day called `` city quadrille '' are all just as good as one remembers them to have been , and they are welcome back .
as autumn starts its annual sweep , few americans and canadians realize how fortunate they are in having the world's finest fall coloring .
the only other regions so blessed are the british isles , western europe , eastern china , southern chile and parts of japan , new zealand and tasmania .
jack frost is not really responsible for this great seasonal spectacle ; ;
the best effects come from a combination of temperate climate and plenty of late-summer rain , followed by sunny days and cool nights .
below is a specific guide , keyed to the calendar .
canada .
in the maritime provinces farther east , the tones are a little quieter .
in the canadian rockies , great groves of aspen are already glinting gold .
vermont's sugar maples are scarlet from sept. 25 to oct. 15 , and often hit a height in early october .
the shades tend to be a little softer in the forests that blanket so much of maine .
middle atlantic states .
farther south in new york there is a heavy haze of color over the catskills in mid-october , notably along routes 23 and 23a .
new jersey's color varies from staccato to pastel all the way from the delaware water gap to cape may .
during the first half of october the blue ridge and other parts of the appalachians provide a spectacle stretching from maryland and west virginia to georgia .
midwest .
in wisconsin , take route 55 north of shawano or routes 78 and 60 from portage to prairie du chien .
in minnesota , arrowhead county and route 53 north to international falls are outstanding .
illinois' shawnee national forest , missouri's iron county and the maples of hiawatha , kan. should be at their best in mid-october .
the rockies have many `` aspencades '' , which are organized tours of the aspen areas with frequent stops at vantage points for viewing the golden panoramas .
new mexico's biggest is at ruidoso oct. 7 , 8 , while alamogordo and cloudcroft cooperate in similar trips oct. 1 .
pleasure domes .
the corn palace at mitchell , s. dak. , `` the world's corniest building '' , has a carnival through sept. 23 headlining the three stooges and pee wee hunt .
the 1961 theme is the dakota territorial centennial , with the pictures including the lewis and clark expedition , the first river steamboat , the 1876 gold rush , a little red schoolhouse on the prairie , and today's construction of large missouri river reservoirs .
longwood gardens , near kennett square , pa. ( about 12 miles from wilmington , del. ) , was developed and heavily endowed by the late pierre s. du pont .
the `` peacock tail '' nozzle throws a giant fan of water 100 feet wide and 40 feet high .
the greenhouses alone cover 3-1/2 acres .
clock without hands .
though the subject -- segregation in her native south -- has been thoroughly worked , miss mccullers uses her poet's instinct and storyteller's skill to reaffirm her place at the very top of modern american writing .
with an art that almost conceals art , j. d. salinger can create a fictional world so authentic that it hurts .
the head of monsieur m. ,
a deft , hilarious satire on very high french society involving a statesman with two enviable possessions , a lovely young bride and a head containing such weighty thoughts that he has occasionally to remove it for greater comfort .
a matter of life and death .
it is an engrossing commentary on a repressive , upper-middle-class new york way of life in the first part of this century .
this retelling by louis zara of the brief , anguished life of stephen crane -- poet and master novelist at 23 , dead at 28 -- is in novelized form but does not abuse its tragic subject .
rachel peden .
dance
two noted troupes from overseas will get the fall dance season off to a sparkling start .
the bayanihan philippine dance company , with music and dances that depict the many facets of filipino culture , opens its 60-city u.s. tour in san francisco ( through sept. 24 ) then , via one-night stands , moves on to los angeles ( sept. 29 thru oct. 1 ) .
across the land .
the mule is honored at benson , n.c. ( sept. 22 , 23 ) and at boron , calif. ( sept. 24 thru oct. 1 ) , while the legend of the maid of the mist is celebrated at niagara falls through the 24th .
an archery tournament will be held at north falmouth , mass. ( sept. 23 , 24 ) .
movies
this french film , set in italy , is a summertime splurge in shock and terror all shot in lovely sunny scenery -- so breath-taking that at times you almost forget the horrors the movie is dealing with .
records
callas devotees will have good reason to do their customary cart wheels over a new and complete stereo version of the bellini opera .
by turns , her beautifully sung norma is fierce , tender , venomous and pitiful .
jeremiah peabody's polyunsaturated quick dissolving fast acting pleasant tasting green and purple pills .
of the nation's eight million pleasure-boat owners a sizable number have learned that late autumn is one of the loveliest seasons to be afloat -- at least in that broad balmy region that lies below america's belt line .
there true yachtsmen often find november winds steadier , the waters cooler , the fish hungrier , and rivers more pleasant -- less turbulence and mud , and fewer floating logs .
in the southwest , the fall brings out flotillas of boatsmen who find the summer too hot for comfort .
some pleasant fall cruising country is mapped out below .
west coast .
shore facilities are enormous -- los angeles harbors 5,000 boats , and long beach 3,000 -- but marinas are crowded everywhere .
inland , outboard motorists welcome cooler weather and the chance to buzz over colorado river sandbars and lake mead .
on nov. 11 , 12 , racers will drive their flying shingles in 5-mile laps over its 500-mile speedboat course .
a sailboat may have a bone in her teeth one minute and lie becalmed the next .
the corinthian yacht club in tiburon launches its winter races nov. 5 .
hurricane carla damaged 70% of the marinas in the galveston-port aransas area but fuel service is back to normal , and explorers can roam as far west as port isabel on the mexican border .
off grand isle , yachters often visit the towering oil rigs .
lower mississippi .
river cruising for small craft is ideal in november .
marinas are less plush than the florida type but service is good and creole cooking better .
ten thousand twisty miles of shoreline frame the 30-odd lakes in the vast tennessee river system that loops in and out of seven states .
today there are 48,500 .
if this was in fact mr. remarque's intention he has achieved a notable failure .
he is a dull , unformed , and aimless person ; ;
one looked forward to mr. remarque's ninth book if only because not even a reasonably good novel has yet been written grounded on automobile racing , as dramatic a sport as mankind has devised .
mr. remarque's conception of this novel was sound and perhaps even noble .
his treatment of it is something else .
her lover precedes her in death , at the wheel , and presumably he too has chosen .
the ramblings on life , death , and the wonder of it all are distressing ; ;
the automobile racing bears little relation to reality .
hazards to life and limb on the golf course , while existent , are actuarially insignificant .
he does not .
perhaps he has only forgotten a great deal .
the necessity is not clear to me , and , in any case , to present a case-hardened race-driver as saying he has left his car , which , or whom , he calls `` giuseppe '' , parked `` on the place vendome sneering at a dozen bentleys and rolls-royces parked around him '' is not a liberty ; ;
but it is in the matter of preoccupation with death , which is the primary concern of the book , that remarque's failure is plainest .
to be human , he believes , is to seek one's own destruction : the freudian `` death-wish '' cliche inevitably cited whenever laymen talk about auto race-drivers .
a clerfayt may moon on about the face of death in the cockpit ; ;
but i shan't die tomorrow ; ;
clerfayt , transported , may think of the engine driving his car as `` a mystical beast under the hood '' .
clerfayt , driving , sees himself `` a volcano whose cone funneled down to hell '' ; ;
errors in technical terminology suggest that the over-all translation from the german may not convey quite everything mr. remarque hoped to tell us .
the west is leaderless , according to this book .
against this invincible determination to communize the whole world stands a group of nations unable to agree on fundamentals and each refusing to make any sacrifice of sovereignty for the common good of all .
about 30 per cent call themselves christians in order to keep up appearances and be considered respectable , and only the last 10 per cent are genuine christians and believers in democracy .
each feels intensely national .
but he would fight for his own liberty rather than for any abstract principle connected with it -- such as `` cause '' .
with this barrage , montgomery of alamein launches his attack upon the blunderings of the west .
at war's end leadership in western europe passed from britain because the labour government devoted its attention to the creation of a welfare state .
montgomery believes that she started well .
she pushed wartorn and poverty-stricken nations into prosperity , but she failed to lead them into unity and world peace .
the reasons are that america generally believes that she can buy anything with dollars , and that she compulsively strives to be liked .
but the greater reason for fumbling , stumbling american leadership is due to the shock her pride suffered when the japanese attacked at pearl harbor .
the net result is that under american leadership the general world situation has become bad .
as faulty as has been our leadership clearly the united states must be relied upon to lead .
montgomery calls for a leader who will first put the west's own house in order .
this leader must be a man who lives above illusions that heretofore have shaped the foreign policy of the united states , namely that russia will agree to a reunited germany , that the east german government does not exist , that events in japan in june 1960 were communist-inspired , that the true government of china is in formosa , that mao was the evil influence behind khrushchev at the summit conference in paris in may 1960 , and that either china or russia wants or expects war .
after drastically overhauling nato , western leadership should turn to reducing the suspicions that tear apart the east and west .
`` the west should make the central proposal ; ;
`` but where is the leader who will handle all these things for us '' ? ?
the man whom he would select as our leader for this great task is de gaulle .
but de gaulle is buried in the cause of restoring france's lost soul .
the leader montgomery envisages will need to discipline himself , lead a carefully regulated and orderly life , allow time for quiet thought and reflection , adapt decisions and plans to changing situations , be ruthless , particularly with inefficiency , and be honest and morally proper .
in looking as far back as moses , thence to cromwell , napoleon , lincoln , churchill , and nehru , montgomery attempts to trace the stirrings and qualities of great men .
however , montgomery makes little contribution to leadership theory and practice .
like eisenhower , he holds the militarist's suspicion of politicians .
`` monty '' shows a remarkable capacity for the direct statement and an equally remarkable incapacity for giving adequate support .
nevertheless , montgomery has stated courageously and wisely the crisis of the western world .
and it remains to be seen if the new frontier now taking form can produce the leadership and wisdom necessary to understand the current shape of events .
but then , mario lanza was no common singer , and his whole career , public and non-public , was studded with the kind of unconventional happenings that terminate with the appearance of his first `` recital '' only when he has ceased to be a living voice .
to be sure , lanza made numerous concert tours , here and abroad , but these did not take him to new york where the carping critic might lurk .
the department of agriculture averaged out u.s. food consumption last year at 1,488 lbs. per person , which , allowing for the 17 million americans that john kennedy said go to bed hungry every night , means that certain gluttons on the upper end must somehow down 8 lbs. or more a day .
through previous centuries , eating changed by nearly imperceptible degrees , and mostly toward just getting enough .
for the first time in history , the u.s. has produced a society in which less than one-tenth of the people turn out so much food that the government's most embarrassing problem is how to dispose inconspicuously of 100 million tons of surplus farm produce .
refrigeration , automated processing and packaging conspire to defy season and banish spoilage .
to eat is human , the nation is learning to think , to survive divine .
not all the concern for health is well directed .
each year , reports the american medical association , ten million americans spend $900 million on vitamins , tonics and other food supplements .
grocery stores sell dozens of foods that boast of having almost no food value at all .
the man most firmly at grips with the problem is the university of minnesota's physiologist ancel keys , 57 , inventor of the wartime k ( for keys ) ration and author of last year's bestselling eat well and stay well .
pursuing it , he has logged 500,000 miles , suffered indescribable digestive indignities , and meticulously collected physiological data on the health and eating habits of 10,000 individuals , from bantu tribesmen to italian contadini .
and fats .
vitamins , eggs and milk begin to look like foods to hold down on ( though mothers' milk is still the ticket ) .
already many an american knows his count , and rejoices or worries depending on whether it is nearer 180 ( safe ) or 250 ( dangerous ) .
americans eat too much .
and extra weight increases the risk of cancer , diabetes , artery disease and heart attack .
with meat , milk , butter and ice cream , the calorie-heavy u.s. diet is 40% fat , and most of that is saturated fat -- the insidious kind , says dr. keys , that increases blood cholesterol , damages arteries , and leads to coronary disease .
throughout much of the world , food is still so scarce that half of the earth's population has trouble getting the 1,600 calories a day necessary to sustain life .
in west africa , for example , where meat is a luxury and babies must be weaned early to make room at the breast for later arrivals , a childhood menace is kwashiorkor , or `` red johnny '' , a growth-stunting protein deficiency ( signs : reddish hair , bloated belly ) that kills more than half its victims , leaves the rest prey for parasites and lingering tropical disease .
today , as harrison's principles of internal medicine , a standard internist's text , puts it , `` the most common form of malnutrition is caloric excess or obesity '' .
says keys : `` maybe if the idea got around again that obesity is immoral , the fat man would start to think '' .
the simple mechanical strain of overweight , says new york's dr. norman jolliffe , can overburden and damage the heart `` for much the same reason that a chevrolet engine in a cadillac body would wear out sooner than if it were in a body for which it was built '' .
he has -- for unclear reasons -- a 25% higher death rate from cancer .
he may find even moderate physical exertion uncomfortable , because excess body fat hampers his breathing and restricts his muscular movement .
the appestat , which adjusts the appetite to keep weight constant , is located , says jolliffe , in the hypothalamus -- near the body's temperature , sleep and water-balance controls .
so does cold weather .
but because liquor has a high caloric value -- 100 calories per oz. -- the heavy drinker is seldom hungry .
food for frustration .
it may be fostered by frustration , depression , insecurity -- or , in children , simply by the desire to stop an anxious mother's nagging .
the result says jolliffe : `` the child gains the feeling that food is the purpose of life '' .
reports dr. keys : `` a fairly common experience for us is the wife who finds her husband staying out more and more .
so she fishes around in the cupboard and hauls out a chocolate cake .
for the army of compulsive eaters -- from the nibblers and the gobblers to the downright gluttons -- reducing is a war with the will that is rarely won .
keys has no such objections to metrecal , quaker oats's quota and other 900-calorie milk formulas that are currently winning favor from dieters .
`` it contains large amounts of protein , vitamins and minerals .
but keys worries that the metrecal drinker will never make either the psychological or physiological adjustment to the idea of eating smaller portions of food .
despite his personal distaste for obesity ( `` disgusting '' ) , dr. keys has only an incidental interest in how much americans eat .
cholesterol , the cornerstone of dr. keys's theory , is a mysterious yellowish , waxy substance , chemically a crystalline alcohol .
they know it is the chief ingredient in gallstones .
but they cannot fully explain the process of its manufacture by the human liver .
`` a remarkable substance '' , says dr. keys , `` quite apart from its tendency to be deposited in the walls of arteries '' .
explains keys : as the fatty protein molecules travel in the bloodstream , they are deposited in the intima , or inner wall of a coronary artery .
as cholesterol piles up , it narrows , irritates and damages the artery , encouraging formation of calcium deposits and slowing circulation .
a clot forms at the site , seals off the flow of blood to the heart and provokes a heart attack .
fats & coronaries .
even eggs and other cholesterol-rich foods , eaten in normal amounts , says dr. keys , do not materially affect the amount of cholesterol in the blood .
during world war 2 , , doctors in the netherlands and scandinavia noted a curious fact : despite the stresses of nazi occupation , the death rate from coronary artery disease was slowly dropping .
that year , sweden's haqvin malmros showed that the sinking death rate neatly coincided with increasingly severe restrictions on fatty foods .
here keys and others , such as dr. a. e. ahrens of the rockefeller institute , took over to demonstrate the chemical difference between vegetable and animal fats -- and even between different varieties of each .
the degree of saturation depends on the number of hydrogen atoms on the fat molecule .
mono-unsaturated fats have room for two more hydrogens on each molecule , and the poly-unsaturated fat molecule has room for at least four hydrogens .
as a result , although we still make use of this distinction , there is much confusion as to the meaning of the basic terms employed .
the terms are generally taken for granted as though they referred to direct and axiomatic elements in the common experience of all .
for in the modern world neither `` spirit '' nor `` matter '' refer to any generally agreed-upon elements of experience .
when the words are used , we are never sure which of the traditional meanings the user may have in mind , or to what extent his revisions and rejections of former understandings correspond to ours .
just a few centuries ago the world of spirits was as populous and real as the world of material entities .
demons , fairies , angels , and a host of other spiritual beings were as much a part of the experiential world of western man as were rocks and trees and stars .
in it important elements of christianity and of the biblical view of reality in general , which now cause us much difficulty , could be responded to quite naturally and spontaneously .
in carrying out this program science has undoubtedly performed a very considerable service for which it can claim due credit .
science is fully competent to deal with any element of experience which arises from an object in space and time .
in doing so science has unquestionably cleared up widespread misconceptions , removed extraneous and illusory sources of fear , and dispelled many undesirable popular superstitions .
all this has not , however , been an unmixed blessing .
the house has been swept so clean that contemporary man has been left with no means , or at best with wholly inadequate means , for dealing with his experience of spirit .
we simply find ourselves in the position of having no means for inquiring into the structure and meaning of this range of our experience .
science has simply left us helpless and powerless in this important sector of our lives .
as the play opens the audience is introduced to the community of salem in puritan america at the end of the eighteenth century .
the conversation of the characters creates an atmosphere suggesting the usual mixture of pleasures , foibles , irritations , and concerns which would characterize the common life of a normal village in any age .
instead , the audience can sit back at ease and , from the perspective of an enlightened time which no longer believes in such things , enjoy the dead seriousness with which the characters in the play take the witches and devils which are under discussion .
for all involved in this discussion the devil is a real entity who can really be confronted in the woods on a dark night , the demon world is populated with real creatures , and witches actually can be seen flying through the air .
everyone in salem , saint and sinner alike , is swept up by it .
it grows terribly and unavoidably in power and leaves in its wake a trail of misery , moral disintegration , and destruction .
if one asks about this play , what it is that comes upon this community and works within it with such terrible power , there is no better answer to give than `` spirit '' .
in the end the good man , john proctor , expresses what the audience has already come to feel when he says , `` a fire , a fire is burning ! !
the tragic irony of the play is that the very belief in and concern with a devil who could be met in the woods and combatted with formulae set out in books was the very thing that prevented them from detecting the real devil when he came among them .
yet are not we of the mid-twentieth century , who rightly do not believe there is any such `` thing '' as the devil , just as bad off as they -- only in a different way ? ?
we are left helpless to cope with it because we do not dare speak of it as anything real for fear that to do so would imply a commitment to that which has already been discredited and proved false .
in a long commentary which he has inserted in the published text of the first act of the play , he says at one point : `` however , that experience never raised a doubt in his mind as to the reality of the underworld or the existence of lucifer's many-faced lieutenants .
better minds than hale's were -- and still are -- convinced that there is a society of spirits beyond our ken '' .
the concept of unity , in which positive and negative are attributes of the same force , in which good and evil are relative , ever-changing , and always joined to the same phenomenon -- such a concept is still reserved to the physical sciences and to the few who have grasped the history of ideas .
( page 34 )
yet such is the dramatic power of his writing that the audience is nevertheless left in the grip of the terrible power and potency of that which came over salem .
it is not enough in accounting for this feeling to analyze it into the wickedness of individual people added together to produce a cumulative effect .
the reality of spirit emerges in this play in spite of the author's convictions to the contrary .
there is nothing in the whole range of human experience more widely known and universally felt than spirit .
think , for example , of the spirit of the marine corps .
we cannot , of course , assign it any substance .
yet it exists and has an objective reality which can be experienced and known .
every community , if it is alive has a spirit , and that spirit is the center of its unity and identity .
for it is primarily in community that we know and experience spirit .
it is the spirit which is the source of a community's drawing power by means of which others are drawn into it from the world outside so that the community grows and prospers .
the idea of community and the idea of spirit are two distinct and separable ideas .
the members of the community do not create the spirit but rather find it present and waiting for them .
the spirit of the marine corps was present and operative before any of the present members of it came into it .
if the content of faith is to be presented today in a form that can be `` understanded of the people '' -- and this , it must not be forgotten , is one of the goals of the perennial theological task -- there is no other choice but to abandon completely a mythological manner of representation .
the absurd notion that demythologization entails the expurgation of all mythological concepts completely misrepresents bultmann's intention .
when we say that a mythological mode of thought must be completely abandoned , we mean it must be abandoned as the sole or proper means for presenting the christian understanding of existence .
the statement is often made that when bultmann argues in this way , he `` overestimates the intellectual stumbling-block which myth is supposed to put in the way of accepting the christian faith '' .
if bultmann's own definition of myth is strictly adhered to ( and it is interesting that this is almost never done by those who make such pronouncements ) , the evidence is overwhelming that he does not at all exaggerate the extent to which the mythological concepts of traditional theology have become incredible and irrelevant .
on the contrary , even in the heart of `` the bible belt '' itself , as can be attested by any one who is called to work there , the industrial and technological revolutions have long been under way , together with the corresponding changes in man's picture of himself and his world .
although the theological forms of the past continue to exist in a way they do not in a more secularized situation , the striking thing is the rapidity with which they are being reduced to a marginal existence .
time and again in counseling and teaching , one encounters members of this group whose attempts to bring into some kind of unity the insubstantial mythologies of their `` fundamentalist '' heritage and the stubborn reality of the modern world are only too painfully obvious .
in the absence of a truly adequate conceptuality in which the gospel can be expressed , the unavoidable need to demythologize it makes use of whatever resources are at hand -- and this usually means one or another of the various forms of `` folk religion '' current in the situation .
but it is to say that this need is far more important for such infatuation than most of the pundits seem to have suspected .
to be sure , when this is pointed out , a common response among certain churchmen is to fulminate about `` the little flock '' and `` the great crowd '' and to take solace from paul's castigation of the `` wisdom of the wise '' in the opening chapter of first corinthians .
can the church risk assuming that the `` folly '' of men is as dear to god as their `` wisdom '' , or , as is also commonly implied , that `` the foolishness of god '' and `` the foolishness of men '' are simply two ways of talking about the same thing ? ?
there is an ancient and venerable tradition in the church ( which derives , however , from the heritage of the greeks rather than from the bible ) that god is completely independent of his creation and so has no need of men for accomplishing his work in the world .
but , as scripture everywhere reminds us , god does have need of his creatures , and the church , a fortiori , can ill afford to do without the talents with which the world , by god's providence , presents it .
until we translate this gospel into a language that enlightened men today can understand , we are depriving ourselves of the very resources on which the continued success of our witness most certainly depends .
and that we firmly believe this will presently become evident when we set forth reasons to justify such a conviction .
this is what we mean when we say this demand must be accepted without condition .
expressed differently : if the price for becoming a faithful follower of jesus christ is some form of self-destruction , whether of the body or of the mind -- sacrificium corporis , sacrificium intellectus -- then there is no alternative but that the price remain unpaid .
modern man , as dietrich bonhoeffer has told us , has `` come of age '' ; ;
and those of us who so richly benefit from it should be the last to despise it .
to say this , of course , is to take up a position on one side of a controversy going on now for some two hundred years , or , at any rate , since the beginning of the distinctively modern period in theological thought .
it is to this same tradition that most of the creative figures in the last century and a half of american theology also belong .
) tillich as well .
what makes this long and diverse tradition essentially one is that those who have belonged to it have been profoundly in earnest about being modern men in a distinctively modern world .
they have insisted , rather , on living fully and completely within modern culture and , so far from considering this treason to god , have looked upon it as the only way they could be faithful to him .
however much we may have to criticize liberal theology's constructive formulations , the theology we ourselves must strive to formulate can only go beyond liberalism , not behind it .
for we have said , in effect , that of the two alternatives to his position variously represented by the other participants in the demythologizing discussion , only one is really an alternative .
whereas bultmann's `` center '' position is structurally inconsistent and is therefore indefensible on formal grounds alone , the general position of the `` right '' , as represented , say , by karl barth , involves the rejection or at least qualification of the demand for demythologization and so is invalidated on the material grounds we have just considered .
in order to make the implications of our position as clear as possible , we may develop this argument at greater length .
to do this , it is sufficient to point out that if the principle in terms of which alternatives are to be conceived is such as to exclude more than two , then the question of a `` third '' possibility is a meaningless question .
hence , if what is in question is whether in a given theology myth is or is not completely rejected , it is unimportant whether only a little bit of myth or a considerable quantity is accepted ; ;
therefore , the only conceivable alternatives are those represented , on the one hand , by the two at least apparently self-consistent but mutually exclusive positions of buri and barth and , on the other hand , by the third but really pseudo position ( analogous to a round square ) of bultmann .
it will be recalled from the discussion in section 7 that the position of the `` right '' , as represented by barth , rests on the following thesis : the only tenable alternative to bultmann's position is a theology that ( 1 ) rejects or at least qualifies his unconditioned demand for demythologization and existential interpretation ; ;
and ( 3 ) in so doing , frees itself to give appropriate emphasis to the event jesus christ by means of statements that , from bultmann's point of view , are mythological .
representing as it did the efforts of only unauthorized individuals of the roman and anglican churches , and urging a communion of prayer unacceptable to rome , this association produced little fruit , and , in fact , was condemned by the holy office in 1864 .
the church unity octave , january 18-25 , was enthusiastically devoted to prayer and discussion by the various churches .
but it must be readily seen that the religious picture in england has so greatly changed during these hundred years as to engender hope , at least on the catholic side .
i came to england last summer to do research on the unpublished letters of cardinal newman .
being intellectually influenced by newman and the general 19th-century literature of england , i knew only a protestant-dominated country .
in representing part of this new picture , i will be recounting some of my own personal experiences , reactions and judgments ; ;
since the protestant clergy for the most part wear gray or some variant from the wholly black suit , my roman collar and black garb usually identify me in england as a roman catholic cleric .
nowhere have i seen public expression of anti-catholicism .
a birmingham newspaper printed in a column for children an article entitled `` the true story of guy fawkes '' , which began :
in the 355 years since the first guy fawkes night , much of the story has been forgotten , so here is a reminder '' .
in spite of the increase in numbers and prestige brought about by the conversions of newman and other tractarians of the 1840's and 1850's , the catholic segment of england one hundred years ago was a very small one ( four per cent , or 800,000 ) which did not enjoy a gracious hearing from the general public .
in 1864 newman professedly had to write his apologia with his keenest feelings in order to be believed and to command a fair hearing from english readers .
yet it represents a very considerable percentage of the churchgoing population .
she found this a marvel because , as she said , only six per cent of english people are churchgoers .
from many sides come remarks that protestant churches are badly attended and the large medieval cathedrals look all but empty during services .
the protestant themselves are the first to admit the great falling off in effective membership in their churches .
an amazing article in the manchester guardian of last november , entitled `` fate of redundant churches '' , states than an archbishops' commission `` reported last month that in the church of england alone there are 790 churches which are redundant now , or will be in 20 years' time .
and in the last five years , the `` methodist chapel committee has authorized the demolition or , more often , the sale of 764 chapels '' .
while it must be said that these same protestants have built some new churches during this period , and that religious population shifts have emptied churches , a principal reason for this phenomenon of redundancy is that fewer protestants are going to church .
still , it is clear from such reports , and apparently clear from the remarks of many people , that protestants are decreasing and catholics increasing .
a century ago , newman saw that liberalism ( what we now might call secularism ) would gradually but definitely make its mark on english protestantism , and that even high anglicanism would someday no longer be a `` serviceable breakwater against doctrinal errors more fundamental than its own '' .
one of the ironies of the present crusade for christian unity is that there are not , relatively speaking , many real christians to unite .
the london universe devoted its centenary issue last december 8 to mapping out various aspects of catholic progress during the last one hundred years .
i have found myself saying with other foreigners here that english catholics are good catholics .
they hope , of course , to reclaim the non-catholic population to the catholic faith , and at every sunday benediction they recite by heart the `` prayer for england '' :
intercede for our separated brethren , that with us in the one true fold they may be united to the chief shepherd , the vicar of thy son .
the english saints are widely venerated , quite naturally , and now there is great hope that the forty martyrs and cardinal newman will soon be canonized .
i have not seen this charge made during my stay here , but apparently it is still in the air .
in this connection , it has been observed that the increasing number of irish catholics , priests and laity , in england , while certainly seen as good for catholicism , is nevertheless a source of embarrassment for some of the more nationalistic english catholics , especially when these irishmen offer to remind their christian brethren of this good .
at oxford one hundred years ago there were very few catholics , partly because religious tests were removed only in 1854 .
now , not only are there considerably more laity as students and professors at oxford , but there are also numerous houses of religious orders existing in respectable and friendly relations with the non-catholic members of the university .
catholic seminarians attend tutorials and row on the cherwell with non-catholic students .
the general tone of articles appearing in such important newspapers as the manchester guardian and the sunday observer implies a kindly recognition that the catholic church is now at least of equal stature in england with the protestant churches .
the catholic priest , though somewhat superficially drawn , easily came out the best .
such a series of articles was certainly never printed in the public press of mid-victorian england .
catholic priests have frequently appeared on television programs , sometimes discussing the christian faith on an equal footing with protestant clergymen .
the good feeling which exists between these two important church figures is now well known in england .
and it was interesting to observe that b.b.c.'s television film on christmas eve was the bells of st. mary's .
it was the first time an english primate has done this since the 14th century .
almost daily something is reported which feeds this catholic hope in england : statistics of the increasing numbers of converts and irish catholic immigrants ; ;
a report that a catholic nun had been requested to teach in a non-catholic secondary school during the sickness of one of its masters ; ;
a report that 200 protestant clergymen and laity attended a votive mass offered for christian unity at a catholic church in slough during the church unity octave .
the straight line would symbolize its uniqueness , the circle its universality .
christianity declares that in the life and death of jesus christ the unique and the universal concur .
to be the savior and the lord , jesus christ has to be a historical individual with a biography all his own ; ;
yet this utterly individual historical person must also contain within himself the common history of mankind .
his death is his alone , yet each man can see his own death in the crucifixion of jesus .
not a circle , then , nor a straight line , but a spiral represents the shape of death as irenaeus sees it ; ;
as represented by a spiral , history may , in some sense , be said to repeat itself ; ;
christ is both unique and universal .
as origen interprets the end of history on the basis of its beginning , so irenaeus portrays the story of adam on the basis of the story of christ .
from god's will and wisdom , and from virgin earth .
from this earth , then , while it was still virgin god took dust and fashioned the man , the beginning of humanity '' .
adam and eve were perfect , not in the sense that they possessed perfection , but in the sense that they were capable of development toward perfection .
irenaeus does not claim pre-existence for the human soul ; ;
existence is created and willed by god and is not the consequence of a pre-existent rebellion or of a cosmic descent from eternity into history .
the biblical symbol for this affirmation is expressed in the words : `` so god created man in his own image ; ;
there are some passages in the writings of irenaeus where the image of god and the similitude are sharply distinguished , so most notably in the statement : `` if the ( holy ) spirit is absent from the soul , such a man is indeed of an animal nature ; ;
thus the image of god is that which makes a man a man and not an oyster ; ;
recent research on irenaeus , however , makes it evident that he does not consistently maintain this distinction .
for he was created not exactly immortal , nor yet exactly mortal , but capable of immortality as well as of mortality .
`` so that the man should not have thoughts of grandeur , and become lifted up , as if he had no lord , because of the dominion that had been given to him , and the freedom , fall into sin against god his creator , overstepping his bounds , and take up an attitude of self-conceited arrogance towards god , a law was given him by god , that he might know that he had for lord the lord of all .
but if he did not , he would become mortal , melting into earth , whence his frame had been taken '' .
yet he did not stop being human as a result .
man was created with the capacity for immortality , but the devil's promise of immortality in exchange for disobedience cost adam his immortality .
the true way to immortality lay through obedience , but man did not believe this .
for she did not obey when as yet she was a virgin .
so also did mary , having a man betrothed ( to her ) , and being nevertheless a virgin , by yielding obedience , become the cause of salvation , both to herself and the whole human race '' .
his interpretation of the beginning on the basis of the end prompts him to draw these parallels between the virgin eve and the virgin mary .
for as it was christ , the word of god , who came to rescue man , so it was disobedience to the word of god in the beginning that brought death into the world , and all our woe .
at the nadir of that circuit is death .
and disobedience to god entails death .
this leads irenaeus to the somewhat startling notion that adam and eve died on the same day that they disobeyed , namely , on a friday , as a parallel to the death of christ on good friday ; ;
in any case , though they had been promised immortality if they ate of the tree , they obtained mortality instead .
man's life , originally shaped for immortality and for communion with god , must now be conformed to the shape of death .
even death , therefore , has a providential as well as a punitive function .
but he set a bound to his ( state of ) sin , by interposing death , and thus causing sin to cease , putting an end to it by the dissolution of the flesh , which should take place in the earth , so that man , ceasing at length to live in sin , and dying to it , might live to god '' .
for it prepares the way for the passage from life through death to life that is achieved in christ .
it is probably fair to say that the idea of death is more profound in irenaeus than the idea of sin is .
it is borne out also by the absence of any developed theory about how sin passes from one generation to the next .
this emphasis upon death rather than sin as man's fundamental problem irenaeus shares with many early theologians , especially the greek-speaking ones .
death reminds man of his sin , but it reminds him also of his transience .
these two aspects of death cannot be successfully separated , but they dare not be confused or identified .
such efforts almost always find themselves compelled to ask whether adam was created capable of growing old and then older and then still older , in short , whether adam's life was intended to be part of the process of time .
one night , so some of these theories run , adam would have fallen asleep , much as he fell asleep for the creation of eve ; ;
the embarrassment of these theories over the naturalness of death is an illustration of the thesis that death cannot be only a punishment , for some termination seems necessary in a life that is lived within the natural order of time and change .
it is the wages of sin , and its sting is the law .
this seems to have been the conclusion to which origen was forced .
such an interpretation of death radically alters the christian view of creation ; ;
because christianity teaches not only salvation in history , but salvation by the history of christ , such an interpretation of death would require a drastic revision of the christian understanding of the work of christ .
the unitarian clergy were an exclusive club of cultivated gentlemen -- as the term was then understood in the back bay -- and parker was definitely not a gentleman , either in theology or in manners .
even so , gannett judiciously argued , the association could legitimately decide that parker `` should not be encouraged nor assisted in diffusing his opinions by those who differ from him in regard to their correctness '' .
one can even argue -- though this is a delicate matter -- that every justification existed for their returning the public lecture to the first church , and so to suppress it , rather than let parker use it as a sounding board for his propaganda when his turn should come to occupy it .
their demand against the calvinist orthodoxy for intellectual liberty had never meant that they would follow `` free inquiry '' to the extreme of proclaiming christianity a `` natural '' religion .
whenever new england liberalism is reminded of the dramatic confrontation of parker and the fraternity on january 23 , 1843 -- while it may defend the privilege of chandler robbins to demand that parker leave the association , while it may plead that dr. n. l. frothingham had every warrant for stating , `` the difference between trinitarians and unitarians is a difference in christianity ; ;
had it done so , the blot on its escutcheon would have remained indelible , nor could the harvard divinity school assemble today to honor parker's insurgence other than by getting down on its collective knees and crying `` peccavi '' .
fortunately , the honor of the denomination can attest that cyrus bartol defended parker's sincerity , as did also gannett and chandler robbins ; ;
in the hall , after adjournment , dr. frothingham took him warmly by the hand and requested parker to visit him -- whereupon our burly theodore again burst into tears .
it was indeed a near thing , but somehow the inherent decency of new england ( which we inherit ) did triumph .
to the extent that he was ostracized or even reviled , we solace ourselves by saying he asked for it .
in both cases the stubborn fact remains : liberalism gave birth to two brilliant apostates , both legitimate offspring of its loins , and when brought to the test , it behaved shabbily .
is it after all possible that no matter how the liberals trumpet their confidence in human dignity they are exposed to a contagion of fear more insidious than any conservative has ever to worry about ? ?
emerson evaded the problem by shoving it aside , or rather by leaving it behind him : he walked out of the unitarian communion , so that it could lick the wound of his departure , preserve its self-respect and eventually accord him pious veneration .
hence he was in his lifetime , as is the memory of him afterwards , a canker within the liberal sensitivity .
actually , the dispute between parker and the society of his time , both ecclesiastical and social , was a real one , a bitter one .
the fact is incontestable : that liberal world of unitarian boston was narrow-minded , intellectually sterile , smug , afraid of the logical consequences of its own mild ventures into iconoclasm , and quite prepared to resort to hysterical repressions when its brittle foundations were threatened .
nevertheless , we can find reasons for respecting even the bigotry of the populace ; ;
but parker as the ultra-liberal minister within the pale of a church which had proclaimed itself the repository of liberality poses a different problem , which is not to be resolved by holding him up as the champion of freedom .
it has been endlessly rephrased , but i may here put it thus : at what point do the tolerant find themselves obliged to become intolerant ? ?
there can be no doubt , the boston of that era could be exquisitely cruel in enforcing its canons of behavior .
we stand more in awe of one another than most people .
even more poignantly , and with the insight of a genius , channing added -- remember , this is channing , not parker ! !
channing wrote this -- in a letter ! !
but theodore parker , commencing his mission to the world-at-large , disguised as the minister of a `` twenty-eighth congregational church '' which bore no resemblance to the congregational polities descended from the founders ( among which were still the unitarian churches ) , made explicit from the beginning that the conflict between him and the hunkerish society was not something which could be evaporated into a genteel difference about clerical decorum .
an institutionalized liberalism proved itself fundamentally an institution , and only within those defined limits a license .
he arraigned the citizens in language of so little courtesy that they had to respond with , at the least , resentment .
nor , when we recollect how sensitive were the emotions of the old puritan stock in regard to the recent tides of immigration , should we be astonished that their thin lips were compressed into a white line of rage as parker snarled at them thus : `` talk about the catholics voting as the bishop tells ! !
you and i do the same thing .
boston has been controlled by a few capitalists , lawyers and other managers , who told the editors what to say and the preachers what to think '' .
parker meant business .
it was `` duty '' he said that his parents had given him as a rule -- beyond even the love that suffused his being and the sense of humor with which he was largely supplied -- and it was duty he would perform , though it cost him acute pain and exhausted him by the age of fifty .
`` if it gave me pleasure to say hard things '' , he wrote , `` i would shut up forever '' .
because he copiously shed his own tears , and yielded himself up as a living sacrifice to the impersonalized conscience of new england , he was not disturbed by the havoc he worked in other people's consciences .
it is idle to ask why we are no longer disturbed if somebody , professing the deepest piety , decides anew that it is of no importance whether or not christ transformed the water into wine at eleven a.m. on the third of august , a.d. 32 .
so we are the more prepared to give parker the credit for having taken the right side in an unnecessary controversy , to salute his courage , and to pass on , happily forgetting both him and the entire episode .
i have , within the past fifty years , come out of all uncertainty into a faith which is a dominating conviction of the truth and about which i have not a shadow of doubt .
i have also constantly engaged in scientific work and am fully aware of the value of opinions formed in science as well as in the religions in the world .
at one time i became disturbed in the faith in which i had grown up by the apparent inroads being made upon both old and new testaments by a `` higher criticism '' of the bible , to refute which i felt the need of a better knowledge of hebrew and of archaeology , for it seemed to me that to pull out some of the props of our faith was to weaken the entire structure .
although still aware of a great light and glow of warmth in the book , i stood outside shivering in the cold .
now , if any part of the bible is assuredly the very word of god speaking through his servant , it is john's gospel .
here i took my leave of my learned friends to step out on another path , to which we might give the modern name of pragmatism , or the thing that works .
so , i put my bible to the practical test of noting what it says about itself , and then tested it to see how it worked .
the next traditional step then was to accept it as the authoritative textbook of the christian faith just as one would accept a treatise on any earthly `` science '' , and i submitted to its conditions according to christ's invitation and promise that , `` if any man will do his will , he shall know of the doctrine , whether it be of god , or whether i speak of myself '' ( john 7 : 17 ) .
i believe , therefore , that we are without exception sinners , by nature alienated from god , and that jesus christ , the son of god , came to earth , the representative head of a new race , to die upon the cross and pay the penalty of the sin of the world , and that he who thus receives christ as his personal saviour is `` born again '' spiritually , with new privileges , appetites , and affections , destined to live and grow in his likeness forever .
i now ever look for christ according to his promises and those of the old testament as well , to appear again in glory to put away all sin and to reign in righteousness over the whole earth .
the bible is as obviously and truly food for the spirit as bread is food for the body .
i place his precepts and his leadings above every seeming probability , dismissing cherished convictions and holding the wisdom of man as folly when opposed to him .
our lord's invitation with its implied promise to all is , `` come and see '' .
as i ministered to his needs , i noticed that his face was radiant in spite of his suffering and i learned that he was trusting not only in the skill of his doctor and nurse but also the lord .
let not your heart be troubled , neither let it be afraid '' .
he was about to leave them , to depart from this world , and return to his father in heaven .
i praise god for the privilege of being a nurse who has that peace through faith in the lord jesus christ .
how often have i looked to jesus when entering the sick room , asking for his presence and help in my professional duties as i give my talents not only as the world giveth but as one who loves the saviour and his creatures .
are you longing for peace in your heart ? ?
as only a member of the family can share in the innermost joys of the family , likewise one must belong to the family of god in order to receive the benefits that are promised to those who are his own .
perhaps you do not know if you belong to him .
`` god so loved the world , that he gave his only begotten son , that whosoever believeth in him should not perish , but have everlasting life '' , and `` as many as received him , to them gave he power to become the sons of god , even to them that believe on his name '' .
not that empty peace the world offers , but a deep , abiding peace which nothing can destroy .
then , with the hymn writer of old , you can say :
resting sweetly in jesus' control .
and his glory is flooding my soul '' .
what next ? ?
cape canaveral's achievements thunder forth from the radio , television , and newspaper .
proof ? ?
one out of every three or four marriages ends in divorce ! !
delinquency , juvenile and adult , is at an all-time high ! !
read your daily newspaper ! !
or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul '' ? ?
gaining outer space and losing `` inner '' space is bad business according to god's standards .
only a fool would think otherwise .
is putting a rocket in orbit half so significant as the good news that god put his son , jesus christ , on earth to live and die to save our hell-bound souls ? ?
16 ) .
your spiritual `` inner '' space helps determine the spirituality of america as a nation .
is forgiveness of past sins , assurance of present help , and hope of future bliss in your orbit ? ?
pleasure , fame and fortune , drowning your troubles with a drink , and `` living it up '' with the gang are like candy bars when you're hungry : they may ease your hunger temporarily , but they'll never take the place of a satisfying , mouth-watering steak .
no amount of religious ceremonies or even joining a church will relieve the gnawing of your `` inner '' space .
because your soul was made to be filled with god himself , not religious functions `` about '' him .
that is why the bible commands you to `` taste and see that the lord is good : blessed ( happy ) is the man that trusteth in him '' ( psalm 34 : 8 ) .
accept the sinless son of god , jesus christ , as your own personal saviour .
`` the lord is my light and my salvation ; ;
the lord is the strength of my life ; ;
( psalm 27 : 1 )
it was a session at which all the youngsters were told to express their fears , to get them out in the open where they could talk about them freely .
dr. george w. crane , a medical columnist , thinks it would .
each week an estimated 20 million patients call upon us doctors .
they are ' worry warts .
one of the most wholesome things you could schedule in your church would thus be a group confessional where people could admit of their inner tensions '' .
it must be getting more serious .
one doctor made a careful survey of his patients and the reasons for their troubles , and he reported that 40% of them worried about things that never happened ; ;
12% of them worried about their health , although their ailments were imaginary ; ;
only 8% of the worries had behind them real causes which demanded attention .
what is the real cause of them ? ?
look at the things we do to escape our fears and to forget our worries .
we spend billions of dollars at the race tracks , and more billions on other forms of gambling .
we consume tons of aspirin and tranquilizers and sleeping pills in order to get a moment's relief from the tensions that are tearing us apart .
`` sad '' was not the right word , of course .
and that's worse than sad .
in one of his writings pascal speaks of this mania for diversion as being a sign of misery and fear which man cannot endure without such opiates .
does that explain why there is now such a big boom in the bomb shelter business ? ?
i doubt that `` fear parties '' and `` group confessionals '' will help very much .
isn't that where most of them are already -- right out on the front page of our newspapers ? ?
the question is : what are we going to do about them ? ?
hitler did just that 23 years ago , building up tensions that first led to a munich and then to a world war .
it is said that fear in human beings produces an odor that provokes animals to attack .
the president of the united states has said : `` we will never negotiate out of fear , and we will never fear to negotiate '' .
and that's another reason why it is imperative for us these days to conquer our fears , to develop the poise that promotes peace .
in psalm 27 : 1 you read those beautiful words which you must have in your heart if you are to master the fears that surround you , or to drive them out if they have you in their grip : `` the lord is my light and my salvation ; ;
the lord is the strength of my life ; ;
well , you say , those are beautiful words all right , but it was easy for the psalmist to sing them in his day .
he didn't know anything about the problems we face today .
read the next two verses : `` when the wicked , even mine enemies and my foes , came upon me to eat up my flesh , they stumbled and fell .
that is almost a perfect description of the predicament in which we find ourselves today , isn't it ? ?
he has already devoured huge areas of the world , putting men behind concrete walls and iron curtains and barbed wire , reducing them to slavery , systematically crushing not only their bodies but their souls , and shooting them to death if they try to escape their prison .
what a terrible thing , that `` wailing wall '' in berlin ! !
another man tried to swim across the river from the east to the west , but was shot and killed .
she was fatally injured .
practically everybody in berlin has relatives and friends that live in the opposite part of the city .
but the enemy answers them from loudspeakers that pour out communist propaganda with a generous mixture of terrible profanity .
the normal rate of suicides in east berlin was one a day , but since the border was closed on august 13 it has jumped to 25 a day ! !
we are all involved in them , deeply involved .
we live from crisis to crisis .
he must learn to say with true faith what the psalmist said in a similar world : `` the lord is my light and my salvation ; ;
the lord is the strength of my life ; ;
notice that this man had a threefold conception of god which is the secret of his faith .
he lived in a very dark world , but he was not in the dark .
-- those were his very first creative words -- he began the world with light -- this god still gives light to a world which man has plunged into darkness .
and there is light ! !
the psalmist could say that god was his light even though he could only anticipate the coming of christ .
he could only see the light coming over the horizon .
for us it is a fact in history .
this is the faith that moved the psalmist to add his second conception of god : `` the lord is my salvation '' .
if god could do that , he could do anything .
and god had conquered that one by his grace ! !
the apostle paul said the same thing in the language and faith of the new testament : `` he that spared not his own son , but delivered him up for us all , how shall he not with him freely give us all things ? ?
who shall separate us from the love of christ ? ?
( romans 31 , 32 , 35 )
this is the key to the conquest of fear .
when that fear has been removed by faith in jesus christ , when we know that he is our savior , that he has paid our debt with his blood , that he has met the demands of god's justice and thus has turned his wrath away -- when we know that , we have peace with god in our hearts ; ;
and so the psalmist gives us one more picture of god : `` the lord is the strength of my life '' .
it recalls those words of another psalm : `` god is our refuge and strength , a very present help in trouble .
but , again , we have no real evidence on this from that quarter until the close of the ninth century a.d. , when an arabic scholar , tabit ibn korra ( 836-901 ) is said to have discussed the magic square of three .
2 .
the concept of the middle kingdom at peace , strong and united under a forceful ruler , which had been only a longed-for ideal in the time of the warring states , was finally realized by the establishment of a chinese empire under the ch'in dynasty ( 221-207 b.c. ) .
among the many severe measures taken by the first emperor , shih huang-ti , in his efforts to insure the continuation of this hard-won national unity , was the burning of the books in 213 b.c. , with the expressed intention of removing possible sources for divergent thinking ; ;
many of the latter were destroyed in their turn , during the burning of the vast ch'in palace some ten years later ; ;
in fact , during the first century b.c. , an extensive literature sprang up devoted to these subjects , finding its typical expression in the so-called `` wei books '' , a number of which were specifically devoted to the lo shu and related numerical diagrams , especially in connection with divination .
after all this destruction of old literature , it should be obvious why we have so little information about the early history and development of the lo shu , which was already semisecret anyhow .
although modern scholars have expressed surprise that `` the simple magic square of three '' , a mere `` mathematical puzzle '' , was able to exert a considerable influence on the minds and imaginations of the cultured chinese for so many centuries , they could have found most of the answers right within the square itself .
such an analysis speedily reveals why the middle number of the lo shu , 5 , was so vitally significant for the chinese ever since the earliest hints that they had a knowledge of this diagram .
indeed , mathematically speaking , it was both functionally and symbolically the most important number in the entire diagram .
then , if the middle number is activated to its greatest potential in terms of this square , through multiplying it by the highest number , 9 ( which is the square of the base number ) , the result is 45 ; ;
furthermore , the middle number of the lo shu is not only the physical mean between every opposing pair of the other numbers , by reason of its central position ; ;
in fact , the neat balance of these pairs , and their subtle equilibrium , would have had special meaning in the minds of the old chinese .
and in this square , the respective pairs made up of large and small odd ( yang ) numbers , and those composed of large and small even ( yin ) numbers , were all equal to each other .
the tremendous emphasis on the 5 in the lo shu square -- for purely mathematical reasons -- and the fact that this number so neatly symbolized the heart and center of the universe , could well explain why the old chinese seem to have so revered the number 5 , and why they put so much stress on the concept of centrality .
the existing reverence for centrality must have been still further stimulated toward the close of the second century b.c. , when the han emperor wu ti ordered the dynastic color changed to yellow -- which symbolized the center among the traditional five directions -- and took 5 as the dynastic number , believing that he would thus place himself , his imperial family , and the nation under the most auspicious influences .
after this time , inscriptions on the han bronze mirrors , as well as other writings , emphasized the desirability of keeping one's self at the center of the universe , where cosmic forces were strongest .
all this emphasis on centrality and on the number 5 as a symbolic expression of the center , which seems to have begun as far back as 400 b.c. , also may conceivably have led to the development of the five-elements school and the subsequent efforts to fit everything into numerical categories of five .
this trend has often been ascribed to the cult of the five elements itself , as though they had served as the base for all the rest ; ;
and why did the chinese suddenly begin to talk about the five directions , when the animals they used as symbols of the directions designated only the usual four ? ?
this whole tendency had an unfortunate effect on chinese thinking .
scholars made numbered sets of as many things as possible in nature , or assigned arbitrary numbers to individual things , in a fashion that seems to the modern scientific mind as downright nonsensical , and philosophical ideas based upon all this tended to stifle speculative thought in china for many centuries .
yin and yang in the `` lo shu '' square
for the lo shu square was a remarkably complete compendium of most of the chief religious and philosophical ideas of its time .
but , conversely , one cannot begin to understand the lo shu without knowing something about the world view of the old chinese , which they felt they saw expressed in it .
according to this doctrine , the universe was ruled by heaven , t'ien -- as a natural force , or in the personification of a supreme sky-god -- governing all things by means of a process called the tao , which can be roughly interpreted as `` the order of the universe '' or `` the universal way '' .
the yang , or male principle , was the source of light , heat , and dynamic vitality , associated with the sun ; ;
together these two principles influenced all things , and in varying combinations they were present in everything .
during the han dynasty , another yin-yang conception was applied to the lo shu , considering the latter as a plan of ancient china .
taking the former from the five sacred mountains of the han period and the latter from the principal river systems of old china .
the 3 , t'ai-shan in shantung , east china ; ;
the 1 , heng-shan in hopei , north china ( or the mountain with the same name in neighboring shansi ) ; ;
for the rivers , the 4 represented the huai , to the ( then ) southeast ; ;
the 8 , the chi in the northeast ; ;
note that by western standards this plan was `` upside down '' , as it put north at the bottom and south at the top , with the other directions correspondingly altered ; ;
the same arrangement was used when the lo shu was equated with the nine provinces ; ;
few persons who join the church are insincere .
when they fall by the wayside and fail to achieve christian stature , it is an indictment of the church .
a program of lay visitation evangelism can end in dismal defeat with half the new members drifting away unless practical plans and strenuous efforts are made to keep them in the active fellowship .
in the average situation about one-third of those visited make commitments to christ and the church .
the first thirty to sixty days after individuals make their decision will determine their interest and participation in the life of the church .
preparation for membership
this is the answer to the problem of `` membership delinquency '' .
it is unfair and unchristian to ask a person to take the sacred vows of church membership before he has been carefully instructed concerning their implications .
1 )
some pastors write a letter the same night the decision is reported by the visitors .
a helpful leaflet may be enclosed in the letter .
the pastor calls in the home of each individual or family for a spiritual guidance conference .
this is not a social call .
he will discuss the significance of christian commitment , the necessity of family religion and private devotions , and the importance of the membership preparation sessions .
each conference should be concluded naturally with prayer .
3 )
some churches require more .
those who join the church need to be instructed in the faith and the meaning of christian discipleship before they take the sacred vows .
many churches find the sunday school hour to be the most practical time for adult preparation classes .
some pastors have two sessions in one evening , with a refreshment period between .
-- the christian faith ; ;
-- history of the church ; ;
-- duties of church membership ; ;
-- the local church and its program
following each instruction period a piece of literature dealing with the topic should be handed each one for further reading during the week .
fourth session important
in this session the persons seeking membership are provided information concerning the work of the denomination as well as the program and activities of the local church .
the budget of the church may be presented and pledges solicited at this session .
( see sample on pp. 78-79 .
the social time gives an opportunity for church leaders to become acquainted with the new members .
in conducting the membership preparation-inquirers' class , the pastor should plan a variety of teaching techniques in order to develop greater interest on the part of the class .
1 )
some churches have six or more training sessions of two hours each , generally held on sunday night or during the week .
2 )
3 )
some excellent filmstrips with recordings and motion pictures may be secured from your denominational headquarters to enrich the class session .
have a `` question box '' .
urge them to write out their questions for the box .
use a textbook with assigned readings each week .
select class members for reports on various phases of the study .
conduct examinations , using a true-false check sheet .
ask each member to write a statement on such topics as : `` what christ means to me '' , `` what the church means to me '' , `` why join the church '' , `` the duties of church members '' , etc. .
assign a series of catechism questions to be memorized .
invite class members to share in an extra period of bible study each week .
ask each new member to bring his pledge of loyalty to the reception service .
there is a growing conviction among pastors and church leaders that all those who come into the fellowship of the church need preparatory training , including those coming by transfer of membership .
people appreciate experiences that demand something of them .
for most of them , it will be their first experience in membership training , since this is a recent development in many churches .
the preparatory class is an introductory face-to-face group in which new members become acquainted with one another .
reception into the church fellowship
this should be a high moment in their lives , a never-to-be-forgotten experience .
every detail of the service merits careful attention -- the hymns , the sermon , the ritual , the right hand of fellowship , the introduction to the congregation , the welcome of the congregation .
it will help to determine the attitude of the new members toward the church .
the worship service is the natural and logical time to receive new members into the church .
psychologically the reception should be the climax , following the sermon .
ask the new members to meet thirty minutes before the service to complete `` talent sheets '' and pledge cards .
provide a name card for each new member .
2 )
sponsors may sit with them also .
invite sponsors or fellowship friends to stand back of the new members in the reception service .
give each new member a certificate of membership .
introduce each new member to the congregation , asking him to face the congregation .
lead the congregation in a response of welcome .
have a reception for new members in the parlor or social hall immediately after the service .
take a picture of the group of new members to be put in the church paper or placed on the bulletin board .
have a fellowship luncheon or dinner with new members as guests .
the church is `` the family of god '' .
every member of the family must have a vital place in its life .
everyone is to be a participant .
very easily they may be neglected and eventually join the ranks of the unconcerned and inactive .
one denomination had a membership of 1,419,833 at the beginning of the period under study , and twenty years later its membership stood at 1,541,991 -- a net growth of only 122,158 .
another major church body had 4,499,608 members and twenty years later its membership stood at 4,622,444 .
still another denomination had 7,360,187 members twenty years ago .
these figures indicate that we are losing almost as many as we are receiving into membership .
studies of membership trends , even in some areas where population is expanding , show that numbers of churches have had little net increase , though many new members were received .
the local `` family of god '' has failed its new members through neglect and unconcern for their spiritual welfare .
new members can become participating , growing members .
it must be planned and carefully developed .
if the church has followed the plan of cultivation of prospects and carried through a program of membership preparation as outlined earlier in this book , the process of assimilation and growth will be well under way .
however , it is not enough to bring persons to christian commitment and train them in the meaning of christian discipleship .
the church expects certain things of those who become members .
-- welcome into the fellowship
-- inspiring and challenging worship experiences
-- opportunities for christian service
-- creative prayer experiences
men need unity and they need god .
the statement also points to a classic paradox : the more men turn toward god , who is not only in himself the paradigm of all unity but also the only ground on which human unity can ultimately be established , the more men splinter into groups and set themselves apart from one another .
massacres attending the partition of india and the establishment of the state of israel are simply recent grim evidences of the hostility such divisions can engender .
the source of this paradox is not difficult to identify .
institutions require structure , form , and definition , and these in turn entail differentiation and exclusion .
to escape this fate , it must rule some things out .
some persons are so sensitive to this truth as to propose that we do away with institutions altogether ; ;
the suggestion is naive .
having once committed himself to an ideal which he considers worthwhile , he inevitably creates forms for its expression and institutions for its continuance .
both eventualities are possible logically , but practically they are impossible .
yet the fact remains that such institutions do set men at odds with their fellows .
the only way that i can see is through communication .
approached creatively , it is a high art .
in a certain sense , interfaith communication parallels diplomatic communication among the nation-states .
i shall touch on three areas : personal , national , and theological .
by personal factors i mean those rooted in personality structure .
such needs may rise to pathological proportions .
fortunately the number of pathological bigots appears to be quite small , but it would be a mistake to think that more than a matter of degree separates them from the rest of us .
interfaith conflicts which spring from psychological deficiencies are the most unfortunate of all , for they have no redeeming features whatsoever .
2 )
the specific instance i have in mind is the afro-asian version which has gained prominence only in this second half of the twentieth century .
no less than twenty-two nations have already achieved independence since world war 2 , , and the number is growing by the year .
colonialism alone would have been able to make these difficulties serious , for christianity is so closely tied to colonialism in the minds of these people that repudiation of the one has tended automatically toward the repudiation of the other .
nationalism has abetted not only the repudiation of foreign religions but the revival of native ones , some of which had been lying in slumber for centuries .
insofar as these nations claim to incarnate traditions and ways of life which constitute ultimate , trans-political justifications for their existence , such people are inevitably led to emphasize the ways in which these traditions and ways are theirs rather than someone else's .
africans and asians tend to consider not only missions but the local churches they have produced as centers and agents of western culture and ideology if not of direct political propaganda .
but the problem extends elsewhere .
in 1960 ceylon nationalized its sectarian -- preponderantly christian -- schools , to the rejoicing of most of its 7,000,000 buddhists and the lament of its 800,000 roman catholics .
the progressive closing of afro-asian ears to the christian message is epitomized in a conversation i had three years ago while flying from jerusalem to cairo .
he said that on his tour the preceding year a considerable number of hours would have been available to him on japanese radio networks , but that he had then lacked the funds to contract for them .
it was not that they had been contracted for during the interval ; ;
it is not unfair to add on the other side that the crude and almost vitriolic approach of certain fundamentalist sects toward the cultures and religions among which they work has contributed measurably to this heightening of anti-christian sentiment .
although i have emphasized the barriers which an aroused nationalism has raised against relations between christians and non-christians in asia , the fact is that this development has also widened the gulf between certain afro-asian religions themselves .
neither has the establishment of the state of israel fostered harmony between muslims and jews .
i turn finally to several theological developments .
theocracy reconsidered .
the american constitution was historic at this point in providing that `` congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof '' .
the trend throughout the world's religions has been toward a recognition of at least the practical validity of this constitutional enactment .
`` what is the point '' , charles adams reports the pakistanis as asking , `` in demanding an islamic state and society if no one , not even the doctors of the sacred law themselves , can say clearly and succinctly what the nature of such a state and society is '' ? ?
and while the nation was formerly named `` the islamic republic of pakistan '' , it is now simply `` the republic of pakistan '' .
the new regime in turkey is intentionally less muslim than its predecessor .
during the years when israel was passing from crisis to crisis -- the sinai campaign , the infusion of multitudes of penniless immigrants -- it was felt that the purpose of national unity could be best served if the secular majority were to yield to the religious parties .
and in this country gustave weigel's delineation of the line between the sacral and secular orders during the last presidential campaign served to provide a most impressive roman catholic defense of the practical autonomy of both church and state .
everywhere there seems to be a growing recognition of the fact that governments and religious institutions alike are too fallible and corruptible -- in a word , too human -- to warrant any claim of maintaining partnership with the divine .
salvation reconsidered .
that mention of this should bring smiles to our lips today is as clear an indication as we could wish of the extent to which attitudes have changed .
leslie newbiggin reflects the dominant position within the world council of churches when he says , `` we must claim absoluteness and finality for christ and his finished work , but that very claim forbids us to claim absoluteness and finality for our understanding of it '' .
the roman catholic church has excommunicated one of its priests , father feeney , for insisting that there is no salvation outside the visible church .
when they say that under no circumstances would it ever be right to `` permit '' the termination of the human race by human action , because there could not possibly be any proportionate grave reason to justify such a thing , they know exactly what they mean .
yet it seems clear that there can be no good sufficiently great , or evil repelled sufficiently grave , to warrant the destruction of mankind by man's own action .
he is not talking in the main about probabilities , risks and danger in general .
he is talking about double effects , of which the specific action causes directly the one and indirectly the other , but causes both ; ;
this is what , in a technical sense , to `` only permit '' an evil result means .
of course , grave guiltiness may be imputed to the military action of any nation , or to the action of any leader or leaders , which for any supposed good `` permits '' , in this sense , the termination of the human race by human action .
naturally , where one or the other of the effects of an action is uncertain , this has to be taken into account .
presumably , if the reverse is the case and the good effect is more certain than the evil result that may be forthcoming , not only must the good and the evil be prudentially weighed and found proportionate , but also calculation of the probabilities and of the degree of certainty or uncertainty in the good or evil effect must be taken into account .
if an evil which is certain and extensive and immediate may rarely be compensated for by a problematic , speculative , future good , by the same token not every present , certain , and immediate good ( or lesser evil ) that may have to be done will be outweighed by a problematic , speculative , and future evil .
he does not expect to be able to trammel up all the future consequences of his action .
he does what he can and may and must , without regarding himself as lord of the future or , on the other hand , as covered with guilt by accident or unforeseen consequences or by results he did not `` permit '' in the sense explained .
and by deriving legitimate decision backward from whatever may conceivably or possibly or probably result , whether by anyone's doing or by accident , it finds itself driven to inaction , to non-political action in politics and non-military action in military affairs , and to the not very surprising discovery that there are now no distinctions on which the defense of justice can possibly be based .
if it continues indefinitely it is nearly a statistical certainty that a mistake will be made and that the devastation will begin '' .
he bravely attempts to face this alternative realistically , i.e. , by considering the worst possible outcome , namely , the total domination of the world by russia within a few years .
nevertheless , the consequence of the policy proposed is everywhere subtly qualified : it is `` a possible result , however improbable '' ; ;
`` if it didn't prevail mankind would still be given the opportunity of prevailing '' ; ;
if we have not thought and made a decision entirely in these terms , then we need to submit ourselves to the following `` simple test '' : `` have we decided how we are to kill the other members of our household in the event of our being less injured than they are '' ? ?
it is no longer to be formulated in terms of the nature of present action itself , its intention , and proximate effect or the thing to be done .
`` it is worse for a nation to give in to evil than to run the risk of annihilation '' .
but i can only make this choice because i believe that the risk need not increase , but may be deliberately reduced '' ( by precautions against accidents or by limiting war ? ?
`` if asked to choose between a terrible probability and a more terrible possibility , most men will choose the latter '' .
i do not accept that the choice is between capitulation and the certainty of nuclear war '' .
let us therefore put first things first , and make sure of preserving the human race at whatever the temporary price may be '' .
even a nuclear holocaust is a little less frightful to contemplate than a race of dehumanised humans occupying the earth until doomsday '' .
but one does not have to affirm the existence of an evil order irredeemable in that sense , or a static order in which no changes will take place in time , to be able truthfully to affirm the following fact : there has never been justitia imprinted in social institutions and social relationships except in the context of some pax-ordo preserved by clothed or naked force .
not to repel injury and uphold and improve pax-ordo means not simply to accept the misshapen order and injustice that challenges it at the moment , but also to start down the steep slope along which justice can find no place whereon to stand .
`` i would far rather die after a russian occupation of this country -- by some deliberate act of refusal -- than die uselessly by atomisation '' .
he does not mean , in fact he addresses himself specifically to reject the proposition , that `` if we took the risk of surrendering , a new generation in britain would soon begin to amass its strength in secret in order to reverse the consequences of that surrender '' .
this is not a project for regaining the ground for limited war , by creating a monopoly in one power of the world's arsenal of unlimited weapons .
`` it is no good recommending surrender rather than nuclear warfare with the proviso that surrender could be followed by the effective military resistance by occupied peoples .
this is to surrender in advance to whatever attack may yet be mounted , to the very last ; ;
the only contrary action , in the future as in the past , runs the risk of war ; ;
that is why it is so very important that ethical analysis keep clear the problem of decision as to `` permitted '' effects , and not draw back in fright from any conceivable contingency or suffer paralysis of action before possibilities or probabilities unrelated , or not directly morally related , to what we can and may and must do as long as human history endures .
we should not allow the image of an immanent end brought about indirectly by our own action in the continuing human struggle for a just endurable order of existence to blind us to the fact that in some measure accelerating the end of our lease may be one consequence among others of many other of mankind's thrusts toward we know not what future .
for almost one-sixth of the national population discrimination in the free selection of residence casts a considerable shadow upon these values assumed as self-evident by most americans .
this pressure has urged re-evaluation of the assumptions underlying their professional ethics ; ;
it is not surprising that , as spokesman for real estate interests , the national association of real estate boards ( nareb ) and its local associations have sought to limit and often ignore much of this pressure .
what does he conceive his role to be in this area of social unrest ? ?
what social , ethical and theological insights can the church and university help him bring to bear upon his situation ? ?
several new england realtors were invited to participate in a small colloquium of property lawyers , political scientists , economists , social psychologists , social ethicists and theologians .
for a number of years , wesleyan has been drawing varied groups of political and business leaders into these informal discussions with members of the faculty and student body , attempting to explore and clarify aspects of their responsibility for public policy .
such conversation quickly reveals an ethically significant ambivalence in the self-images held by most realtors .
professional responsibility is seen to consist largely in serving the wishes of the client fairly and in an efficient manner .
obviously , much more than customer expectation is determining the realtor's role .
and whether these would qualify them for `` congenial '' , `` happy '' relations to other people in certain community areas .
how explicit such factors have been historically is evident in any chronology of restrictive covenant cases or in a review of nareb's code of ethics article 34 in the code , adopted in 1924 , states that `` a realtor should never be instrumental in introducing into a neighborhood a character of property or occupancy , members of any race or nationality or any individuals whose presence will clearly be detrimental to property values in that neighborhood '' .
the rationale for this avoidance was most frequently expressed in economic terms ; ;
they would become tagged as men not interested in being purely real estate `` professionals '' but agitators for some kind of `` cause '' or `` reform '' , and this was no longer to be a `` pro '' .
these men -- for the most part educated in our `` best '' new england colleges , well established financially and socially in the community -- under kindly but insistent probing , reveal little or no objective or explicit criteria or data for their generalizations about the interests and attitudes of the people they claim to serve , or about the public responses that actually follow their occasional breach of a `` client-service relationship '' .
as our discussion continued , the inadequacy of the `` client relationship '' as an interpretation of their `` way of operating '' became evident .
from such communal roles the realtor finds the substance that shapes his moral understanding .
( 2 ) their pattern of involvement in the regular legal and political processes ; ;
( 1 ) most of the realtors minimized their own understanding of and role in the racial issue , pleading that they only reflect the attitudes and intentions of their society .
the commission on race and housing concluded that `` there is no reason to believe that real estate men are either more or less racially prejudiced , on the whole , than any other segment of the american population '' .
also , it does not recognize the elements of choice and judgment continually employed .
realtors , both generally and in this group , have invariably equated residential integration with a decline in property values , a circumstance viewed with considerable apprehension .
there are increasing numbers of neighborhoods that are integrated residentially without great loss of property values , the white population having taken the initiative in preparing the areas for an appreciation of the negroes' desire for well-kept housing , privacy , etc. .
often they are able to get in only because the area is declining economically .
no one anticipates any radical shift in this situation , but questions concerning reading habits , the availability of such data and the places where it is discussed must surely be raised .
relevant `` facts '' , however , extend beyond considerations of property values and maintenance of `` harmonious '' neighborhoods .
`` against the grain of creation ''
on the positive side , recent federal action has largely undermined the legal sanction so long enjoyed by the segregationist position ; ;
realtors in attendance at the colloquium expressed interest , for example , in connecticut's new housing law as setting standards of equity that they would like `` to have to obey '' , but in support of which none had been willing to go on public record .
( this has not been the case everywhere .
official reasoning : the bill was a `` wanton invasion of basic property rights '' .
there are sins of omission as well as commission ; ;
judicial opinion since the supreme court decision on shelley v. kraemer ( 1948 ) has rendered racial restrictive covenants unenforcible .
in the states that have passed laws preventing discrimination in the sale or rental of housing , support by real estate associations for compliance and broadened coverage through additional legislation could help remove the label of `` social reformism '' that most realtors individually seem determined to avoid .
one of the roles of the social scientist , ethicist or theologian in our discussions with the realtors became that of encouraging greater awareness of the opportunities offered by the legal and political processes for the exercise of broad social responsibilities in their work .
such judgments are meaningful only in so far as persons are members of a world , let us say a community , that embraces scarsdale or yonkers , but is also infinitely richer since it is all-inclusive .
racial discrimination is wrong , then , not because it goes against the grain of a faculty member trying to converse with a few realtors but because it goes against the grain of creation and against the will of the creator .
a fragmented society
most realtors and real estate brokers talk of themselves as `` professional people '' with the cultural and moral values held by the traditional professions .
our faculty and students pressed this issue more than any other .
if we look about the world today , we can see clearly that there are two especially significant factors shaping the future of our civilization : science and religion .
religion , or the lack of it , will decide whether we use this power to build a brave new world of peace and abundance for all mankind , or whether we misuse this power to leave a world utterly destroyed .
we may feel pessimistic at the outlook .
we are looking inside the atom and seeing there a universe which is not material but something beyond the material , a universe that in a word is not matter but music .
atomic energy
you know that i could hold right here in my hand the little chunk of uranium metal that was the heart of the bomb that dropped on hiroshima .
but packed in that metallic ball there was the explosive force of 20,000 tons of aj .
and with the availability of bombs of that size , war became a new problem .
but we had hardly started to adjust our thinking to this new uranium weapon when we were faced with the hydrogen bomb .
we know that we have hydrogen in water ; ;
there is also hydrogen in wood and hydrogen in our bodies .
i won't try the experiment , but i think you can see that if we all knew the secret and we could all let ourselves go , there would be quite an explosion .
salt water is still af , the same hydrogen is there .
of course , there is also an optimistic side to the picture .
and think , if we all knew this secret and we could pool our power , what a wonderful public utility company we would make .
then think of delaware bay and the ocean and you see that we have a supply of power for millions of years to come .
an octillion atoms
to grasp our new view of the atom , we have to appreciate first of all how small the atom is .
one night there were some dried peas lying on our kitchen table , and these peas looked to me like a little group of atoms ; ;
i calculated first that there are about an octillion atoms in the average human body ; ;
then i calculated that a million peas would just about fill a household refrigerator ; ;
a trillion peas would fill all the houses in a town of about ten thousand people ; ;
i saw that i would soon run out of buildings at this rate , so i decided to take another measure -- the whole state of pennsylvania .
so we get the whole state covered with peas , about four feet deep .
pennsylvania thus blanketed would contain about a quintillion peas .
next we imagine our blizzard raging over all the land areas of the entire globe -- north america , south america , europe , asia , and africa , all covered with peas four feet deep ; ;
next we freeze over the oceans and cover the whole earth with peas , then we go out among the neighboring stars , collect 250 planets each the size of the earth , and also cover each of these with peas four feet deep ; ;
finally we go into the farthest reaches of the milky way ; ;
we cover each of these with our blanket of peas and then at last we have octillion peas corresponding in number to the atoms in the body .
a speck -- and space
let us focus on an atom of calcium from the tip of the bone of my finger and let us suppose that i swallow a magic alice in wonderland growing pill .
i shoot up through the roof , into the sky , past the clouds , through the stratosphere , out beyond the moon , out among the planets , until i am over a hundred and fifty million miles long .
and if you should step inside of such a magnified atom , according to the physics of forty years ago , you would see circulating over your head , down at the sides , and under your feet , some twenty luminous balls about the size of footballs .
since these electrons are moving like planets , you may wonder whether there is an atomic sun at the center of the atom .
this is the atomic sun , the atomic nucleus .
it is this atomic nucleus that contains the positive charge of electricity holding these negatively charged electrons in their orbits ; ;
you may ask what else there is , and the answer is nothing -- nothing but empty space .
if i could put your body in an imaginary atomic press and squeeze you down , squeeze these holes out of you in the way we squeeze the holes out of a sponge , you would get smaller and smaller until finally when the last hole was gone , you would be smaller than the smallest speck of dust that you could see on this piece of paper .
at any rate , it shows us how immaterial we are .
now this 1920 view of the atom was on the whole a discouraging picture .
and therefore the atom was really just a little machine ; ;
so if you are made of atoms , you are just a big machine ; ;
and this would mean that we live in a mechanistic universe , governed by the laws of cause and effect , bound in chains of determinism that hold the universe on a completely predetermined course in which there is not room for soul or spirit or human freedom .
then came the scientific revolution in the late 1920's .
and to see the meaning of this new picture , imagine that you can put on more powerful glasses and go back inside the atom and have a look at it in the way we view it today .
these ripples spread out in symmetrical patterns like the rose windows of a great cathedral .
it is a music like the music from a great organ or a vast orchestra playing a symphony .
and as this music ebbs and flows , there is an antiphonal chorus from all the atoms outside , in fact from the atoms of the entire universe .
the island of nantucket , part of the state of massachusetts , lies about thirty-one miles southeast of its mother state .
the island folk have their living almost entirely from summer visitors ; ;
during about three and a half months of the year , in the summer , there are three boats that run from the mainland to the island carrying passengers , food , and cars ; ;
this is a fine trip , too , on a good day .
to what extent and in what ways did christianity affect the united states of america in the nineteenth century ? ?
to what extent did it mould the morals and the social , economic , and political life and institutions of the country ? ?
even more of an obstacle is the difficulty of separating the influence of christianity from other factors .
at times we can say that it was the major factor .
as we have seen , a growing proportion , although in 1914 still a minority , were members of churches .
many of them had once been members of a church or at least had been given instruction in christianity but for one or another reason had allowed the connexion to lapse .
for still others , mostly of the nineteenth-century immigration , it was roman catholicism , and for a small minority it was eastern orthodoxy .
upon most of these christianity had left an impress and through them had had a share in making the individual what he was .
at best only an approximation could be arrived at .
for instance , we cannot know whether even for church members the degree of conformity to christian standards of morality increased or declined as the proportion of church members in the population rose .
yet this cannot be proved .
thus baptist churches on the frontier took cognizance of charges against their members of drunkenness , fighting , malicious gossip , lying , cheating , sexual irregularities , gambling , horse racing , and failure to pay just debts .
as church membership burgeoned , such measures faded into desuetude .
what we can attempt with some hope of dependable conclusions is to point out the manner in which christianity entered into particular aspects of the life of the nation .
we will now speak of the ways in which it helped shape the ideals of the country and of the manner in which it stimulated efforts to attain those ideals through reform movements , through programmes for bringing the collective life to the nation to conformity to christian standards , and through leaders in the government .
by the end of the century the roman catholic church was beginning to make itself felt , mainly through such institutions as hospitals but also through its attitude towards organized labour .
the american dream
thus `` america '' , the most widely sung of the patriotic songs , was written by a new england baptist clergyman , samuel francis smith ( 1808-1895 ) , while a student in andover theological seminary .
the great seal of the united states was obviously inspired by the christian faith .
later in the century the dream again found expression in the lines of katherine lee bates ( 1859-1929 ) , daughter and granddaughter of new england congregational ministers , in her widely sung hymn , written in 1893 , `` america the beautiful '' , with the words `` o beautiful for pilgrim feet whose stern impassioned stress a thoroughfare for freedom beat across the wilderness .
o beautiful for patriot dream that sees beyond the years thine alabaster cities gleam undimmed by human tears .
the american dream was compounded of many strains .
some have seen revivalism and the search for christian perfection as the fountain-head of the american hope .
we must also remember those who reacted against the dream as a kind of myth -- among them melville , hawthorne , and henry james the elder , all of them out of a christian background .
with such a dream arising , at least in part , from the protestant heritage of the united states and built into the foundations of the nation , it is not surprising that many efforts were made to give it concrete expression .
significantly , the initiation and leadership of a major proportion of the reform movements , especially those in the first half of the nineteenth century , came from men and women of new england birth or parentage and from either trinitarian or unitarian congregationalism .
quakers , some from new england , had a larger share than their proportionate numerical strength would have warranted .
the atmosphere was one of optimism , of confidence in human progress , and of a determination to rid the world of its ills .
we should recall the number of movements for the service of mankind which arose from the kindred evangelicalism of the british isles and the pietism of the continent of europe -- among them prison reform , anti-slavery measures , legislation for the alleviation of conditions of labour , the inner mission , and the red cross .
a few of the more prominent must serve as examples of what a complete listing and description would disclose .
others were ephemeral .
still others sprang up late in the century to meet conditions which arose from fresh stages of the revolutionary age .
the movement to end negro slavery began before 1815 and mounted after that year until , as a result of the civil war , emancipation was achieved .
for example , in 1693 the philadelphia yearly meeting of friends declared that its members should emancipate their slaves and in 1776 it determined to exclude from membership all who did not comply .
as we have seen , methodism early took a stand against slavery .
after 1815 anti-slavery sentiment mounted , chiefly among protestants and those of protestant background of the older stock .
the anti-slavery movement took many forms .
it was he who turned the attention of william lloyd garrison ( 1805-1879 ) to the subject .
chiefly remembered because of his incessant advocacy of `` immediate and unconditional abolition '' , he also espoused a great variety of other causes -- among them women's rights , prohibition , and justice to the indians .
a marked impulse came to the anti-slavery movement through the finney revivals .
theodore dwight weld ( 1803-1895 ) was especially active .
as a youth he became one of finney's band of evangelists and gave himself to winning young men .
a group of young men influenced by him enrolled in lane theological seminary and had to leave because of their open anti-slavery position .
they and others employed some of finney's techniques as they sought to win adherents to the cause .
he shunned publicity for himself and sought to avoid fame .
although he later broke with the churches because he believed that they were insufficiently outspoken against social evils , he remained a devout christian .
the anti-slavery movement and other contemporary reforms and philanthropies were given leadership and financial undergirding by arthur tappan ( 1786-1865 ) and his younger brother , lewis tappan ( 1788-1873 ) .
they were almost immediately worshipped for these newer , even more terrible abilities .
royal lineages could be based on extraordinary worldly achievements translated into eternal otherworldly power .
but this eminence was not without its weighty responsibilities .
the royal ritual generated power into the other world : it also provided the living with a way to control the spirits , and bring their powers directly to bear on the everyday affairs of the world .
but naturally , the royal ritual , which provided unusual control over already supremely powerful divine spirits , was held responsible for regulating the universe and insuring the welfare of the kingdom .
the chinese emperor , by proper observance of ritual , manifested divine powers .
by swaying the balance between them , he effected the alternation of the seasons .
in this system , no man is exempt from obligations .
and to offend the dead meant to incur their wrath , and thus provoke the unleashing of countrywide disasters .
and the daily duties of individuals were basically religious in nature .
the common belief was that there existed one moral order , which included everything .
men believed they could control nature by obeying a moral code .
modern westerners have difficulty comprehending this fusion of moral and material , largely because in the west the historical trend has been to deny the connection .
basing action on the empirical determination of cause and effect provides a toughness and bravado that no powerful otherworldly ancestor could ever impart -- plus the added liberation from the constraint of silent burial urns .
the taoists were quietist mystics , who saw an unchanging unity -- the tao -- underlying all phenomena .
the taoists believed the unity could be influenced by proper magical manipulation ; ;
mahayana buddhism was no exception to these prevailing magical concepts .
during its flowering in the sixth to the eighth centuries , mahayana offered a supernatural package to the chinese which bears no resemblance to the highly digested philosophical zen morsels offered to the modern western reader .
the self-realized mahayana saint possessed superhuman powers and magic .
in its monastic form , mahayana was merely an organization of magic-practicing monks ( bonzes ) , who catered to the chinese faith in the supernatural .
confucianism had its own magic in the idea that virtue had power .
but let us not be mistaken about confucian `` virtue '' ; ;
to the confucian , `` virtue '' simply meant mastery and correct observance of three hundred major rules of ritual and three thousand minor ones .
to live correctly in an interdependent moral and material universe of living and dead was decisive for man's fate .
promoters of zen to the west record its ancestry , and recognize that zen grew out of a combination of taoism and indian mahayana buddhism .
proponents of zen to the west emphasize disproportionately the amount of mahayana buddhism in zen , probably in order to dignify the indisputably magical taoist ideas with more respectable buddhist metaphysic .
actually , zen owes more to chinese quietism than it does to mahayana buddhism .
this is well evidenced by the quietist doctrines carried over in zen : the idea of the inward turning of thought , the enjoinder to put aside desires and perturbations so that a return to purity , peace , and stillness -- a union with the infinite , with the tao -- could be effected .
so , too , was the insistence on the relativity of the external world , and the ideas that language and things perceived by consciousness were poor substitutes indeed for immediate perception by pure , indwelling spirit : the opposition of pure consciousness to ratiocinating consciousness .
one of its features attractive to the west is its irreverence for tradition and dogma and for sacred texts .
but this is not the spirit of self-reliant freedom of action for which the westerner mistakes it .
the truth -- the eternal truth -- is not transmittable by words .
the technique of reality confusion -- the use of paradox and riddles to shake the mind's grip on reality -- originated with fourth and third century b.c. chinese quietism : the koan is not basically a new device .
in the supernatural atmosphere of cosmic government , only the ruling elite was ever concerned with a kingdom-wide ordering of nature : popular religion aimed at more personal benefits from magical powers .
early chinese anchoritism was theoretically aimed at a mystic pantheist union with the divine , personal salvation being achieved when the mystical recluse united with divine essence .
the anchorite strove , in fact , to magically influence the world of spirits in the same way that the divine emperor manifested his power .
as the zen literature reveals , as soon as an early zen master attained fame in seclusion , he was called out into the world to exercise his powers .
exponents of zen often insist that very early zen doctrine opposed the rampant supernaturalism of china , and proposed instead a more mature , less credulous view of the universe .
but actually these accounts reveal the supernatural powers that the masters were in fact supposed to possess , as well as the extreme degree of popular credulity : `` hwang pah ( o baku ) , one day going up mount tien tai which was believed to have been inhabited by arhats with supernatural powers , met with a monk whose eyes emitted strange light .
there being no bridge , the master had to stop at the shore ; ;
thereupon hwang pah said : `` if i knew thou art an arhat , i would have doubled you up before thou got over there '' ! !
( 1 ) ''
when that monk came down and approached him with a respectful salutation , he asked : `` where art thou from '' ? ?
`` why '' , said the teacher , `` art thou so late '' ? ?
`` thou mayst have supernatural powers '' , exclaimed yang shan , `` yet thou must give back the spirit of buddha to me '' .
( 2 ) ''
a closer look at modern zen reveals many magical carryovers that are still part of popular zen attitudes .
part of the mealtime ritual in the zendo consists in offerings of rice to the spiritual beings '' .
this picture of extreme self-reliant individuation is difficult to reconcile with such zendo formulas as : `` o you , demons and other spiritual beings , i now offer this to you , and may this food fill up the ten quarters of the world and all the demons and other spiritual beings be fed therewith .
pope leo 13 , on the 13th day of december 1898 , granted the following indulgences : `` an indulgence of three hundred days is granted to all the faithful who read the holy gospels at least a quarter of an hour .
pope pius the sixth , at rome , in april , 1778 , wrote the following : `` the faithful should be excited to the reading of the holy scriptures : for these are the most abundant sources which ought to be left open to everyone , to draw from them purity of morals and of doctrine , to eradicate errors which are so widely disseminated in these corrupt times '' .
`` we hope '' , they said , `` that no family can be found amongst us without a correct version of the holy scriptures '' .
since the catholic church expresses such desire that the sacred scriptures be read , the following taken from the holy bible ( new catholic edition ) will prove a means of grace and a source of great spiritual blessing .
do not wonder that i said to thee , `` you must be born again '' .
the new birth is necessary because god is holy .
for it is written , you shall be holy , because i am holy .
holiness without which no man will see god .
the new birth is necessary because all have sinned .
there is none who understands ; ;
all have gone astray together ; ;
romans 3 : 10-12 , 23 .
therefore as through one man sin entered into the world and through sin death , and thus death has passed unto all men because all have sinned .
you also , when you were dead by reason of your offenses and sins .
and if our gospel also is veiled , it is veiled only to those who are perishing .
2 , corinthians 4 : 3 , 4 .
ephesians 10 .
.
1 st. peter 23 .
st. james 18 .
that which is born of the flesh is flesh ; ;
st. john 3 : 5 , 6 .
if we are born of god we have faith in christ as the only saviour .
1 st. john 5 : 1 .
st. john 12 , 13 .
whoever is born of god does not commit sin ( that is , he does not practice sin .
1 st. john 3 : 9 .
1 st. john 18 .
) if we are born of god we practice righteousness .
1 st. john 29 .
everyone who loves is born of god , and knows god .
if we are born of god we love the brethren .
he who does not love abides in death .
if we are born of god we overcome the world .
and this is the victory that overcomes the world , our faith .
if we are born of god we grow in ( not into , but in ) grace .
2 st. peter 18 .
i am convinced of this , that he who has begun a good work in you will bring it to perfection until the day of christ jesus .
now to him who is able to preserve you without sin and to set you before the presence of his glory , without blemish , in gladness , to the only god our savior , through jesus christ our lord , belong glory and majesty , dominion and authority , before all time , and now , and forever .
the new birth is necessary because the spiritual kingdom requires a spiritual nature .
`` amen , amen , i say to thee , unless a man be born again of water and the spirit , he cannot enter into the kingdom of god .
and that which is born of the spirit is spirit .
st. john 3 : 3 , 5-7 .
the new birth is a new creation .
galatians 15 .
behold , they are made new ! !
for by grace you have been saved through faith ; ;
not as the outcome of works , lest anyone may boast .
ephesians 2 : 8-10 .
i came that they may have life .
he who has the son has the life .
1 st. john 12 .
st. john 36 .
through which he has granted us the very great and precious promises , so that through them you may become partaker of the divine nature .
the new birth is christ living in you by faith .
colossians 27 .
and the life that i now live in the flesh , i live in the faith of the son of god , who loved me and gave himself up for me .
to have christ dwelling through faith in your hearts .
the new birth is miraculous and mysterious .
so is everyone who is born of the spirit .
the new birth is immediate and instantaneous .
st. john 24 .
the new birth is a work of god .
to those who believe in his name : who were born not of blood , nor of the will of the flesh , nor of the will of man , but of god .
a final word
you may be baptized , confirmed , reverent and worshipful ; ;
you may have the final and extreme unction but if you are not born again you are lost and headed for hell and eternal punishment .
you cannot go to heaven unless you are born again .
`` you must be born again '' ( st. john 3 : 7 ) .
you may do as you please with god now .
god placed himself in men's hands when he sent jesus christ into the world as perfect god and perfect man in one being .
they cursed him .
men spit on him .
they called him a devil .
finally men arrested him , gave him a mock trial , flogged him , nailed him on a cross and hung him between earth and heaven ; ;
you can do likewise though christ is not bodily present .
you can ignore his book , the bible , and his church .
it is permitted .
you may refuse him , spit on him , call him a devil , curse him .
you may take his name upon your lips in oaths and curses if you so choose .
on the other hand , you may seek his favor , humble yourself before him and beg his mercy , implore his forgiveness , forsake your sins , and abandon your whole life to him .
20 ) .
the latch is on your side of the door .
the ever burning lusts of the flesh or the powerful victory of holy spirit discipline .
god has already set the day when you will be in his hands .
then it will be a `` fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living god '' if you have abused him in your hands .
my name is guideposts ; ;
when i came into being , 15 years ago , i had one primary purpose : to help men and women everywhere to know god better , and through knowing him better to become happier and more effective people .
when you read me , you are holding in your hands the product of many minds and hearts .
others unknown .
some have walked through pain and sorrow to bring you their message of hope .
fifteen years ago , there were no guideposts at all .
experts in the publishing field consider this astounding .
to me , the explanation is very simple .
i am merely a channel for something .
i cannot define it fully .
it is the power that holds the stars in their orbits , but allows the wind to bend a blade of grass .
it is mankind's wistful yearning for a world of justice and peace .
sometimes such people sense that they are being used ; ;
fifteen years ago , troubled by the rising tide of materialism in the post-war world , a businessman and a minister asked themselves if there might not be a place for a small magazine in which men and women , regardless of creed or color , could set forth boldly their religious convictions and bear witness to the power of faith to solve the endless problems of living .
the minister was norman vincent peale .
they borrowed a typewriter , raised about $2,000 in contributions , hired a secretary , persuaded a couple of young men to join them for almost no pay and began mailing out a collection of unstapled leaflets that they called guideposts .
but from the start they had two important ingredients : sincerity and realism .
and the stories they told were true .
len lesourd went and lived in the slums as a sidewalk derelict for ten days .
len lesourd is my executive editor today .
the help and sympathy that were forthcoming from everywhere .
that was when a remarkable woman , teresa durlach , came to my aid -- not so much with money , as with wisdom and courage .
`` you're so preoccupied that you've let your faith grow dim .
visualize them , then , believe you are getting them , and you will have them '' ! !
and then 500,000 .
with our growth came expansion into new fields of service .
they say all personnel have spiritual needs which guideposts helps to meet .
they say it helps them bring back into schools the spiritual and moral values on which this country was built .
bedridden people say i am easy to hold -- and read .
throughout these exciting years i have been fortunate for , although i have never offered great financial inducements , talent has found its way to me : william boal who so ably organizes business operations ; ;
irving granville and nelson rector who travel widely calling on business firms .
glenn kittler has been twice to africa , once spending a week with dr. albert schweitzer .
van varner recently returned from russia .
around the table sit protestant , catholic , and jew .
sidney fields , years of experience as a new york columnist ; ;
there are people who travel long distances to assure my continued existence .
starr jones gets up every morning at five o'clock , milks his family cow , attends to farm chores , and then takes a two-hour train trip to new york .
we have also seen the power of faith at work among us .
recently , john sherrill was stricken with one of the deadliest forms of cancer .
all over the country a massive shield of prayer was thrown around him .
perhaps it is not fair to mention some people without mentioning all .
that is the kind of people they are .
not so .
sharp division of opinion , too , and strenuous debate .
and there is also something intangible that hovers around the table .
a shorter word is .
it takes many forms , this prayer , but in essence it is always a request for guidance , for open minds and gentle hearts , for honesty and sincerity , for the wisdom and the insights that will help guideposts' readers .
i need your support , your criticism , your encouragement , your prayers .
my name is guideposts .
may he bless you all .
the hated dictator batista had fled .
already the city was filled with barbudos , the bearded , war-dirty revolutionaries , carrying carbines , waving to the crowds that lined the prado .
yet if you looked closely you'd see that his eyes did not pick up the smile on his lips .
i am sure that castro was happy , too , about that support .
my grandfather had been stoned because of his editorials .
when it was my turn , i , too , printed the truth as i knew it about batista , and rejoiced to see his regime topple .
i was full of hope as fidel castro came into havana .
for castro was bringing cuba not freedom , but hatred .
he showed us how he dealt with his enemies : he executed them before tv cameras .
castro's reforms ? ?
new schools were rising , but with this went a harsh proclamation : any academic degree earned during batista's regime was invalid .
he had promised cheaper housing : arbitrarily he cut all rents in half , whether the landlord was a millionaire speculator or a widow whose only income was the rental of a spare room .
farm workers had their wages cut almost in half .
a suspicion was growing that fidel castro was a communist .
his people's courts ; ;
but most disturbing of all were the advisers he called to sit with him in the palace ; ;
what should i do about it , i asked myself ? ?
there was no doubt in my mind that if i crossed him , mobs would appear outside our windows shouting `` paredon ! !
''
i was proud of the new buildings which housed diario now : the rotogravures , gleaming behind glass doors ; ;
here was a powerful , ready-made medium , but it could speak only if i told it to .
it was a simple ivory crucifix which my mother had given me .
now it seemed almost as if jesus were looking down at me with sadness in his eyes , saying :
you may lose your life .
i knew in that moment that i did not have any choice .
therefore it's a genuine pleasure to tell you about an entirely happy bodybuilder who has never had to train in secret has never heard one unkind word from his parents and never has been taunted by his schoolmates ! !
far from discouraging henri , his parents urge him on to greater and greater accomplishments .
and they couldn't have entrusted henri to better hands because `` le professeur '' knows his muscles from the sterno-cleido mastoideus of the neck right down to the tibialis anticus of the leg and better still , he knows just what exercises work best for them and what weider principles to combine them with for fast , fast muscle growth .
undoubtedly you have read the case histories of some of his prize-winning pupils ( every pupil has a physique title of some kind or other ) .
jean-paul senesac , whose story appeared here two issues ago ; ;
charles harve , who recently won the `` most muscular man '' subdivision award in the mr. canada event ; ;
yesiree , the professor knows his muscles ! !
about that time he began reading mr. america and muscle builder and he learned of the famous weider way to fast weight gaining .
well , sir they did real great ! !
of course he did some exercising .
henri has always had shapely legs from swimming and water skiing and really doesn't have to work them very much .
it was muscular but it wasn't symmetrical .
`` it never seemed to widen .
that's when he went to professor claude .
in his gym the professor has some of the most `` knocked out '' equipment since vic tanny .
so right away claude introduced henri to his famous `` moon '' bench and proceeded to teach him his first push-pull super-set consisting of the wide-grip straight-arm pullover ( the `` pull '' part of the push-pull super-set ) which dramatically widens the ribcage and strongly affects the muscles of the upper back and chest and the collar-to-collar bench press which specifically works on the chest to build those wide , reeves-type `` gladiator '' pecs , while stimulating the upper lats and frontal deltoids .
now when henri has completed four complete push-pull super-sets no. 1 , the professor allows him about a five-minute rest period before starting him on four complete push-pull super-sets no. 2 .
the `` push '' exercise of this push-pull super-set is the bench press done with elbows well pulled back and with a greater downward stretch of the pectorals not possible with the barbell variation .
the dumbbell variation develops a most classically sculptured outline to the aj .
( note how strongly the upper lats and serratus are worked in this fine exercise because of the pin-point concentration of force which the dumbbell variation affords ) .
the pushup done in this manner is the greatest pectoral-ribcage stretcher ever invented ! !
you'll know when you've made the greatest stretch because your shoulder blades will touch ! !
he has to ; ;
but as you can also see , it's not a painful exercise at all , because henri de courcy -- the `` happy '' bodybuilder -- looks as though he were having the time of his life ! !
by this time henri's entire chest-back-lat-shoulder area is pumped-up to almost bursting point , and claude takes time to do a bit more pectoral-front deltoid shaping work .
this gives a wide flare to the pecs , causing them to flow dramatically upward into deltoids and dramatically downward into the serratus and aj .
that steel-edged `` carved-out-of-solid rock '' looks of the great champions .
physique contests are rarely won on muscle size alone .
the aspects of physical development that catch the judges' eyes and which rightfully influence their decisions are symmetry and that hallmark of the true champion -- superior definition of the muscles .
but contest definition -- that dramatic muscular separation of every muscle group that seems as though it must have been carved by a sculptor's chisel -- is something quite different .
often these exercises work well for some bodybuilders but less spectacularly for others .
only when the newest mr. america or mr. universe discovers them and puts them into practice are we reacquainted with them and once again see how effective they really are .
why it was ever forgotten for even a moment i cannot say because it works perfectly for everyone , no matter whether he has short or long thigh-bone lengths ! !
a criterion of muscle `` drama '' that is unforgettable to judges and audiences alike ; ;
definition of the thighs at the uppermost part is quite commonly seen in most championship olympic lifters which is easily understandable .
but for purely definition purposes -- used in conjunction with your regular squatting , leg curling , leg extensor programs -- a heavy weight is not needed .
used in several sets of high reps once or twice each week it will not be long before your entire upper leg takes on a razor-sharp definition in which the muscles look like wire cables writhing and twisting under the skin ! !
it's a complete thigh contraction-extension exercise .
it places terrific tension on the leg muscles from start to finish of each repetition .
it improves over-all balance and control for the bodybuilder , and helps to make squats more easily and more correctly performed .
it increases flexibility of the legs .
it speeds muscle growth and power development even for the advanced bodybuilder because each hip and leg is exercised separately , thus enabling a massive , concentrated effort to be focused on each .
place your power stands in position and adjust their height so that this will correspond to the height of your shoulders when you are in a deep leg split as for a heavy clean .
place a suitably-loaded barbell across them ; ;
extend your feet forward and backward until you are in a deep leg split .
when the front knee is straight and locked , allow it to bend again until you feel the bar come lightly into contact with the sides of the power stands .
after you have taken a breather , reverse the position of your legs so that the front thigh of the previous exercise is now to the rear , and the rear thigh now to the front , and perform the same movement in the same manner .
you should have a couple of training partners to stand by when you make your first experiments just for safety .
oh , you'll wobble and weave quite a bit at first .
before your first training experiment has ended there will be a big improvement and almost before you know it you'll be raising and lowering yourself just like a veteran ! !
squat-style lifters and leg-split lifters would both benefit enormously by practicing those variations providing that they remember to make alternate sets with the left and right leg to the front .
pansies are supposed to like it cool , but those great velvety flowers were healthy and perky in the glaring sun .
he seemed puzzled by my question .
the more i talked with him , the more convinced i became that that was the secret of their riotous blooming .
he planted the pansy seeds himself , buying them from a pansy specialist .
their seeds produce vigorous blooming plants half again the size of the unimproved strains .
occasionally , when he had an unusual flower that he wanted more of he did ; ;
it's best to buy them fresh from a dealer who is working to improve them .
i fingered it and had the feeling of adequacy that comes with the right texture , tilth and body .
nothing is easier to grow from seed than pansies .
it doesn't really matter which month of the year you sow them , but they germinate best when they have a wide variation of temperature , very warm followed by cool in the same 24 hours .
pansies don't have to be coddled ; ;
if you do use a cold frame be sure that its ventilation is adequate .
i dig it , rake it smooth , sow the seeds and wet them down with a fog spray .
this keeps it cool and moist and protects it from birds .
when the first sprinkling of green appears i remove the board .
i like sawdust for this , or hay .
every time you transplant a pansy you cause its flowers to become smaller .
as soon as they are large enough to move , i put mine 9 inches apart where they are to bloom .
that encourages rooting , and the better developed the roots , the larger and more plentiful the flowers .
i doubt if it is possible to overfeed them .
lacking that , decayed manure spread over the bed is fine .
in addition to the rich soil they benefit by feedings of manure water every other week , diluted to the color of weak tea .
they need mulch .
now we must use a heavy one .
when winter comes be ready with additional mulch .
that keeps in the cold , retains moisture and prevents the heaving of alternate freezing and thawing .
whenever there is a thaw or a few sunny days , you'll be likely to find a brave little blossom or two .
the pansies i cherished most bloomed for me in february during a particularly cold winter .
( an unheated greenhouse would have been better , if i had had one .
in response to the lengthening days of february they budded , then bloomed their 4-inch velvety flowers .
its mass of bright bloom set in a border of snow made my spirits rise every time i looked at it .
try that late winter pickup when you are so tired of cold and snow that you feel you just can't take another day of it .
try pegging down each separate branch to the earth , using a bobby pin to hold it there .
as soon as an experimental tug assures you that roots have taken over , cut it off from the mother plant .
these cut-down plants will bud and blossom in record time and will behave just as they did in early spring .
probably no one needs to tell you that the way to stop all bloom is to let the blossoms go to seed .
that done , her work is accomplished and she ignores the plant .
go to a reputable grower , preferably a pansy specialist .
in fact it is easier .
many people think that pansies last only a few weeks , then their period of growth and bloom is over .
if the plants are cared for and protected over the winter , the second year is more prolific than the first .
remove about half the branches from each plant , leaving only the strongest with the largest buds .
pansies have character .
treat them right and they'll make a showing every month in the year except the frigid ones .
a salad with greens and tomato is a popular and wonderfully healthful addition to a meal , but add an avocado and you have something really special .
it has a great many assets to recommend it and if you haven't made avocado a part of your diet yet , you really should .
it is roughly shaped like a large pear , and when properly ripened , its dark green skin covers a meaty , melon-like pulp that has about the consistency of a ripe bartlett pear , but oily .
the flavor is neither sweet , like a pear , nor tart like an orange ; ;
it is a flavor that might take a little getting used to -- not because it is unpleasant , but because the flavor is hard to define in the light of our experience with other fruits .
once you become an avocado fan , you will look forward to the season each year with eager anticipation .
today , refrigerated carriers have made the shipping of avocados possible to any place in the world .
it is brought to packing houses , cleaned and graded as to size and quality , and packed in protective excelsior .
this cooling does not change the avocado in any way , it just delays the natural softening of the fruit until a grovelike temperature ( room temperature ) is restored .
one of the most attractive things about avocados is that they do not require processing of any kind .
if the temperature is controlled properly , the avocado will delay its ripening until needed .
it is thick , much like an egg plant's skin , so that poison sprays , if they are used , present no hazard to the consumer .
good taste and versatility , plus safety from spray poisons would be enough to recommend the frequent use of such a fruit , even if its nutritional values were limited .
their main asset is an abundance of unsaturated fatty acids , so necessary for maintaining the good health of the circulatory system .
the b vitamins are well represented , especially thiamin and riboflavin .
none of these values is destroyed , not significantly altered by refrigeration storage .
the study comprised 16 male patients , ranging in age from 27 to 72 .
then they were given 1/2 to 1-1/2 avocados per day as a substitute for part of their dietary fat consumption .
the tremendous energy released by giant rocket engines perhaps can be felt much better than it can be heard .
never before has the introduction of a weapon caused so much apprehension and fear .
a great many writers are bewitched by the apparently overwhelming advantage an attacker would have if he were to strike with complete surprise using nuclear rockets .
with a nation defenseless before it , why would the attacker spare the victim's people ? ?
the nation would be utterly devastated .
nuclear weapons have given the world the means for self-destruction in hours or days ; ;
at this point it should be painfully obvious that cities , being `` soft '' , and the people within them are ideally suited to destruction by nuclear weapons .
it should be appallingly apparent that city-trading is not a profitable military tactic .
they could be used to attack a nation's people ( which would inevitably mean the loss of the attacker's own people ) , or they could be used with discrimination to destroy the enemy's military force .
we must determine whether missiles can win a war all by themselves .
missiles are very valuable weapons , but they also have their too little known limitations .
placing missiles in submarines , on barges , railroads , highways , surface vessels and in the air provides them with passive protection by taking advantage of the gravest weakness of long-range ballistic missiles today -- the extreme difficulty of destroying a mobile or moving target with such weapons .
even if all these operations could be performed instantaneously , the icbm still has a time of flight to the target of about 30 minutes .
because of this , it would appear inevitable that an increasing percentage of strategic missiles will seek self-protection in mobility -- at least until missile defenses are perfected which have an exceedingly high kill probability .
until this hunter-killer operation can be performed by spacecraft , manned aircraft appear to be the only means available to us .
let us suppose the russians decide to build a rail-mobile icbm force .
if we stop thinking in terms of tremendous multimegaton nuclear weapons and consider employing much smaller nuclear weapons which may be more appropriate for most important military targets , it would seem that the b-52 or b-70 could carry a great many small nuclear weapons .
the aircraft could be used to destroy other mobile , fleeting , and imprecisely located targets as well as the known , fixed and hardened targets which can also be destroyed by missile .
is there any other way to do the job ? ?
war , under these circumstances , cannot be one massive exchange of nuclear devastation .
the forces which survive the initial attack must be found and destroyed .
but , how does one go about the job of finding and destroying mobile forces ? ?
some day , many years in the future , true spacecraft will be able to find and destroy mobile targets .
however , the aircraft which we have today are tied to large , `` soft '' airfields .
here then is our problem : aircraft are vital to winning a war today because they can perform those missions which a missile is totally incapable of performing ; ;
this makes today's aircraft a one-shot , or one mission , weapon .
this is the point on which so many people have written off the aircraft in favor of the missile .
eliminate the vulnerability of aircraft on the ground and you have essentially eliminated its vulnerability to long-range ballistic missiles .
put aircraft in `` bomb-proof '' hangars when they are on the ground .
if we could use all the small airfields we have in this country , we could disperse our strategic aircraft by a factor of 10 or more .
using very high thrust-to-weight ratio engines , develop a vertical-takeoff-and-landing ( vtol ) long-range military aircraft .
we could put a portion of our strategic bombers in such shelters .
there is little enthusiasm for spending money to develop more powerful engines because of the erroneous belief that the aircraft has been made obsolete by the missile .
one seldom hears the analogy `` nuclear propulsion will do for the aircraft what it has already done for the submarine '' .
with powerplants such as these , vertical takeoff and landing combat aircraft could be built .
with a 15-to-one engine , a supersonic aircraft weighing 300,000 pounds could rise vertically .
when aircraft are no longer helpless on airfields , they are no longer vulnerable to aj .
we would have the means to seek out and destroy the enemy's force -- whether it were fixed or mobile .
no need to kill an entire city and all its people because we lacked the precision and reconnaissance to selectively disarm the enemy's military force .
in a few years we will have samos ( semiautomatic missile observation system ) .
what targets have we successfully knocked out ? ?
what targets still remain to be hit ? ?
samos will be hard put to see through clouds -- and to see in the dark .
if the target can change its position significantly during the 30 minutes the missile is in the air on its way , the probability of the missile destroying the target is drastically reduced .
it would be priceless to have an aircraft to gather that post-attack reconnaissance .
it would be even more valuable because that same aircraft could immediately destroy any targets it discovered -- no need to wait for a missile to come all the way from the united states with the chance that the target , if it were mobile , would be gone .
few people realize that one kiloton of nuclear explosive power will create 1,000 psi overpressure at 100 feet .
it is our lack of extreme accuracy which forces the use of very large yield nuclear weapons .
with these keen `` eyes '' and small nuclear weapons delivered with accuracy , military forces can be directly attacked with minimum damage to urban areas .
the lyric beauties of schubert's trout quintet -- its elemental rhythms and infectious melodies -- make it a source of pure pleasure for almost all music listeners .
since it requires only five players , it would seem to fall into the category of chamber music -- yet it calls for a double bass , an instrument generally regarded as symphonic .
the many and frequent performances of the trout serve to emphasize the dual nature of its writing .
other interpretations present the music as an essentially intimate creation .
recently i was struck anew by the divergent approaches , when in the course of one afternoon and evening i listened to no fewer than ten different performances .
let me say at the outset that the music sounded as sparkling on the last playing as it did on the first .
artur schnabel was one of the greatest schubert-beethoven-mozart players of all time , and any commentary of his on this repertory is valuable .
certain pianistic traits are common to all five schnabelian renditions , most notably the `` schnabel trill '' ( which differs from the conventional trill in that the two notes are struck simultaneously ) .
schnabel's emphasis on structural clarity , his innate rhythmic vibrancy , and impetuous intensity all tend to stamp his reading as a symphonic one .
this is a serious-minded interpretation , but it is never strait-laced .
the piano performance on this trout is one that really demands a search for superlatives .
i , for one , rather regret that schnabel didn't collaborate with the budapest quartet , whose rugged , athletic playing was a good deal closer to this pianist's interpretative outlook than the style of the belgian group .
the violinist , in particular , is very indulgent with swoops and slides , and his tone is pinched and edgy .
there is a break in continuity just before the fourth variation in the `` forellen '' movement , and i suspect that this is due to imperfect splicing between sides of the original aj .
every detail in his interpretation has been beautifully thought out , and of these i would especially cite the delicious laendler touch the pianist brings to the fifth variation ( an obvious indication that he is playing with viennese musicians ) , and the gossamer shading throughout .
why , for example , does he favor two tempos , rather than one , for the third movement ? ?
( special compliments to the double bass playing of johann krumpp : his scrawny , tottering sound adds a delightful hilarity to the performance .
the glazer-fine arts edition ( concert-disc ) is a model of lucidity and organization .
but having lived with the disc for some time now , i find the performance less exciting than either schnabel's or fleisher's ( whose superb performance with the budapest quartet has still to be recorded ) and a good deal less filled with humor than curzon's .
the hephzibah menuhin-amadeus quartet ( angel ) and victor babin-festival quartet ( rca victor ) editions give us superlative string playing ( both in symphonic style ) crippled by unimaginative piano playing .
) badura-skoda-vienna konzerthaus ( westminster ) and demus-schubert quartet ( deutsche grammophon ) are both warm-toned , pleasantly lyrical , but rather slack and tensionless .
telefunken has accorded him beautiful sound , and this bargain-priced disc ( it sells for $2.98 ) is worthy of consideration .
here is truly a `` great recording of the century '' , and its greatness is by no means diminished by the fact that it is not quite perfect .
must records always sound like records ? ?
seen in perspective , many of these releases have a genuine claim to be milestones .
on the basis of what they give us we can know how the young caruso sang , appreciate the distinctive qualities of parsifal under karl muck's baton , or sense the type of ensemble toscanini created in his years with the new york philharmonic .
in many cases the revolutionary production has offered no more than sensational effects : the first hearing was fascinating and the second disillusioning as the gap between sound and substance became clearer .
if we return to them today , we have no difficulty spotting their weaknesses but we find them still pleasing .
this difference is made up of many factors .
( music often sounds best to me when i can dress informally and sit in something more comfortable than a theatre seat .
any alteration of one of these factors is distortion , although we generally use that word only for effects so pronounced that they can be stated quantitatively on the basis of standard tests .
the sound may be good ; ;
command's new brahms second is a major effort to make a record that sounds like a real orchestra rather than a copy of one .
because of this , only those with truly fine equipment will be able to appreciate the exact degree of the engineers' triumph .
the engineering as such never obtrudes upon your consciousness .
this absence of peaky highs and beefed-up bass not only produces greater fidelity , but it eliminates listener fatigue .
the orchestra is far enough away from you that you miss the bow scrapes , valve clicks , and other noises incidental to playing .
command has achieved the ideal amount of reverberation .
yet the hall never intrudes as a quasi-performer .
all of this would be wasted , of course , if the performance lacked authority and musical distinction .
steinberg seems to have gone directly back to the score , discounting tradition , and has built his performance on the intention to reproduce as faithfully as possible exactly what brahms set down on paper .
without losing the distinctive undertow of brahmsian rhythm , the pacing is firm and the over-all performance has a tightly knit quality that makes for maximum cumulative effect .
in the end , however , the thing about this performance that is most striking is the way it sings .
the engineering provides exactly the support needed for such a result .
the command technique invites you to listen to the depth of the orchestration .
it is this sort of experience that makes the concept of high fidelity of real musical significance for the home music listener .
the already faded pastel charms of the naive music itself vanish entirely in fistoulari's melodramatic contrasts between ultravehement brute power and chilly , if suave , sentimentality .
the home listener is overpowered , all right , but the experience is a far from pleasant one .
at the westminster kc dog show in madison square garden , new york on the second day , the finals of the junior class brought out the most competitive competition in the history of this class .
this year several entries from canada were entered which made the junior class international .
it was interesting to note that many of these juniors were showing dogs in various other classes at the show prior to the finals of the junior class .
over 60 juniors , parents and guests attended .
after the juniors were welcomed and congratulated for qualifying for the finals of the junior class , mrs. william h. long , jr. was introduced as the first speaker .
i know because this is my 37th year with hardly a break .
twenty years ago her daughter betsey long , then 13 years of age , won the grand challenge trophy , children's handling class ( as they were called then ) at westminster .
speaking from long years of experience , mrs. long advised the juniors : `` when showing dogs ceases to be fun and excitement , stop ! !
when you and your dog step into the junior ring , it should be just what the dog wants to do as much as what you want him to do .
he knows your signals , what is expected of him and the way the class is conducted , right up through the flash-bulbs of the photographers '' .
`` take away your attitude '' , said mrs. long , `` and what have you left ? ?
or a bored dog because you are more interested in something else -- maybe the way you look , or the date you have after the class , or you are just doing this to please the parents .
aids sounds more like a pony club , or horsemanship classes -- riding a horse and showing a dog are very similar ! !
hands to guide or restrain ; ;
without right attitude the other aids just do not work right '' .
and may you all continue to show at westminster in the years to come '' ! !
the second speaker was harvey barcus , president of the dog writers ass'n of america .
last year a boy he knows and helped in journalism won the thoroughbred racing ass'n scholarship which is worth $10,000 .
`` junior showmanship is an extremely worthy project and should be earnestly encouraged '' ! !
he feels very forcibly that the american kennel club should take a more active part in encouraging the junior division ! !
westminster show notes
this gave the juniors the use of the entire ring at the show -- a great advantage to them ! !
from there on , each junior was going to be judged individually .
anne hone rogers judges 28th finals
this is the third time in 28 years of junior showmanship at westminster that a lady handler has judged the class .
juniors competed last year at american kennel club and canadian kennel club , recognized shows to be eligible to compete in this class -- the finals for the year .
( the purpose of the junior showmanship competition is to teach and encourage juniors to become good sportsmen .
)
a large number of these juniors have 7 and 8 wins to their credit and are seasoned campaigners .
she then went over them thoroughly giving each a strenuous test in showmanship .
betty lou ham , age 16 , holyoke , mass. , showing an irish setter , was chosen as international champion of the year .
)
in addition to showing an irish setter throughout the year , she also scored with an afghan .
sydney le blanc , age 15 , staten island , n.y. , showing a doberman pinscher , was 2nd .
last year susan also placed 3rd in the finals at westminster .
karen marcmann , age 16 , trapp , penna. , showing a keeshond was 4th .
entries increasing -- requirements raised
each year these shows have increased in entries .
percy roberts , a leading judge will not be at the international show this year for the junior judging contest as he has been invited to judge in australia in march .
it has been suggested many times that a class be set up for the juniors who are overage and cannot enter the junior classes .
such a class was tried out successfully at the westchester kc show recently .
the intermediates in the class with the judge were asked to pick 4 winners and give their reasons but their decisions did not affect the choice of the judge .
at the recent horse show convention in new york it was stated that this intermediate judging class is meeting with great success and will be a great help to future judges in the horse world .
last year robert harris , a leading junior handler entered the dog judging contest ( junior ) at the international kc of chicago show and had the highest score in judging of any junior since the class' inception .
more volunteer handlers needed to judge
the founder of the junior showmanship competition the late leonard brumby , sr. ( for whom the trophy is named after at westminster ) was an outstanding handler and believed a junior should have an opportunity to exhibit in a dog show starting with the junior showmanship division .
to overcome this unfair judging , the a.k.c. requires that a licensed handler be present to judge the class .
by recognizing and helping juniors get interested in the dog world , all will be helping to create future dog owners .
the airedale terrier club of america and the kerry blue terrier club of america have under consideration donating trophies to the boys or girls who win with their breeds in junior showmanship competition at any show .
the rio grande kc is also considering having their junior classes set up so that juniors can qualify with points for westminster .
traveling through the south -- over 16,000 miles -- with two great danes , an afghan , and a persian kitten , we've worked up a regular routine for acceptance at motels .
`` puppies '' ? ?
`` no '' , he replies , `` full grown , adult show dogs , housebroken , and obedience-trained '' .
once settled , we're careful to walk the dogs in an out of the way spot , keep them under control in the room , and feed and bench them where they can't do any harm to the furnishings or the furniture .
many a motel owner -- when we've stopped there again -- has remembered us and has said he preferred our dogs to most children .
is it that they don't care ? ?
at one time , to most americans , unless they were fortunate enough to live near a body of navigable water , boats were considered the sole concern of fishermen , rich people , and the united states navy .
there are more than 8,000,000 recreational boats in use in the united states with almost 10,000,000 the prediction for within the next decade .
boating has become a giant whose strides cover the entire nation from sea to shining sea .
the spectacular upsurge in pleasure boating is markedly evident , expectedly , in the areas where boats have always been found : the natural lakes , rivers , and along the nation's coastline .
developed as a result of the multi-purpose resources control program of the government , vast , man-made bodies of water represent a kind of glorious fringe benefit , providing boating and fishing havens all over the country .
in 1959 , according to the engineers , lake texoma was only one of thirty-two artificial lakes and reservoirs which were used for recreation by over 1,000,000 persons .
providing these means are about ninety companies which manufactured the estimated 1,800,000 boat trailers now in use .
the sight of sleek inboards , outboards , and sailboats being wheeled smartly along highways many miles from any water is commonplace .
today , the boat , on its trailer , is brought to the gear and loaded at the door .
and trailers for boats are not what they started out to be ten years ago .
the boats of america's trailer sailors in 1961 will be coddled on clouds as they are hauled to new horizons .
they range from an eight-foot pram , which you can build yourself for less than $50 , to auxiliary sailboats which can cost over $100,000 .
in this respect , boats can be compared with houses .
there is no question as to just what is available .
there are canoes ideal for fishing in protected waters or for camping trips .
you can cross an ocean in a fully equipped craft , sail , power , or both , or laze away a fine day in a small dinghy on a local pond .
you may order utility models , inboard or outboard , with or without toilets , galleys , and bunks .
designers and manufacturers have produced models for purchasers who run the gamut from a nautical version of the elderly pasadena lady who never drove more than five miles an hour on her once-a-month ride around the block , to the sportiest boatman who insists on all the dash , color , flair and speed possible to encompass in a single boat .
american technology in engine and hull design is largely responsible for the plentiful interest in american boating .
russia , whose technology is not quite primitive , is still in the dark ages when it comes to improving the outboard motor , for instance .
the outboard engine of today has a phenomenal range of one to 80 horsepower , unheard of a few years ago for a two cycle engine in quantity production .
their cost is not beyond the hopes of the american pocketbook , the range being about $150 to $1,000 , depending on size .
and to making the owning of a boat simpler .
having a boat financed through a local bank is done much the same way as an automobile loan is extended .
terms range from one to five years and the interest rates and down payments run about the same as for automobiles .
outboard motors , insurance , and boat repairs may also be financed in the same way as boats .
when the automobile was in its embryonic stage , such roads as existed were pretty much open roads with the tacit understanding that horses should not be unduly terrified being about the only rule governing where , when and how fast a car could go .
man had enough to worry about managing to get up there and stay without being burdened with rules once aloft .
come one , come all , the water's fine ! !
must and should do .
laws on boating vary according to the state in which the craft is to be used and according to its horsepower .
the main requirement is to be sure the boat is numbered according to the regulations of the state in which the boat will be principally used .
state numbering laws differ from each other in many ways .
many states have laws regulating the use of boat trailers and some have restrictions regarding the age of motor boat operators .
it is always wise to consult your marine dealer , local yacht or boat club secretary , or local law enforcement officers if you are not positive what the regulations are .
lack of ability and common sense can lead to just as much tragedy .
foreseeing the possible threats to safety with the rapid growth of the sport , the industry has been supporting an intense , coordinated educational program with great success since 1947 .
the industry has been its own watch dog .
industry interest in safety goes even farther .
a new waterfront site for the bureau is now being built at atlantic city , new jersey , to provide the most modern marine testing facilities as a further tool to keep the sport safe .
it is important to note the work of the united states power squadrons and the u.s. coast guard auxiliary .
these are not governmentally subsidized organizations .
as america on wheels was responsible for an industry of motor courts , motels , and drive-in establishments where you can dine , see a movie , shop , or make a bank deposit , the ever-increasing number of boating enthusiasts have sparked industries designed especially to accommodate them .
the word marina was coined by naebm originally to describe a waterfront facility where recreational boats could find protection and basic needs to lay over in relative comfort .
yachtel , a relatively new word , indicates a waterfront type of hotel where a yachtsman may dock and find overnight accommodations on the premises as well as other services .
it indicates the same thing but it is meant to pertain more specifically to establishments designed to cater to smaller type boats such as outboards .
boatyards which also provide some of the above facilities may rightfully be called marinas .
the design of a mechanical interlocking frame is much like a mechanical puzzle , but once understood , the principles can be applied to any track and signal arrangement .
the main set of bars are the `` tappets '' and one tappet is connected to each lever .
close behind the plane of the tappets are the locking bars .
the number of locking bars required depends on how many false moves must be prevented .
two or more dogs are mounted on each locking bar .
here's how the scheme works : suppose the operator pulls the lever to clear a particular signal .
the dogs on the other ends of these locking bars are thus forced into notches in other tappets .
interlocking signals are normally at stop or `` red '' position , and a lever must be pulled to `` clear '' the signal .
there are other basic rules .
a signal cannot be cleared until all the related turnouts are properly thrown and locked .
the lock insures that the points are thrown all the way with no chance that a wheel flange will snag on a partly thrown point .
generally , these locks on turnouts are called `` facing point locks '' .
each diagram is accompanied by a `` dog chart '' , a list of the levers that show which other levers any particular lever will lock if pulled .
by studying the track-signal diagrams you'll note several other details .
`` home '' signals have two blades .
as an engineer approaches the plant the position of the home signal is seen in advance when he passes the `` distant '' signal located beyond the limits of the interlocking plant .
in other instances where there is no automatic block signaling , the distant has only green and yellow aspects .
the interlocking frame we built at the model railroader workshop and then installed on paul larson's railroad follows the fig. 1 scheme and is shown beginning in fig. 7 , page 65 , and in the photos .
frame
you may change the dimensions to suit a frame for more or fewer levers and locks as you wish .
when cutting the pieces , dress the ends smooth , and square with a smooth file or sanding disk .
let exactly 1'' '' of `` a '' extend beyond `` b '' and use a square to check your angle to exactly 90 degrees .
this gives you the spacing for locating the left-hand piece `` b '' .
solder this second `` b '' to `` a '' at right angles .
cap this assembly ( with spacing bars in place ) with a af bar .
these will be drilled and tapped later on .
position these using six intermediate temporary af spacers and locate the upper 12'' '' bar `` a '' .
now place 12 pieces 1/2'' '' sq. on this edge as we did before and space them with the 5-3/4'' '' long `` tappets '' , as they are called .
cap the locking bar spacers with two af directly under the first two `` b '' pieces .
mark and center-punch all the holes required for screws to hold this assembly together .
placement of these holes is not critical , but they should be located so that the centers are about 1/8'' '' from any edge .
tap the `` a '' pieces 2-56 .
either lay the components aside in proper order or code them with numbers and letters so they may be replaced in their proper positions .
drill 20 no. 47 holes in the upper piece `` a '' as shown in fig. 7 .
note , 6 and 8 lock levers don't require holes for contacts .
put the 12 tappets and some af locking bar spacers in the frame to help align all the components before you tighten the screws .
as an anchor for the spring lock , insert a af bar in the lower left corner of the frame as shown in fig. 7 .
drill two no. 50 holes , one in the insert and one in the locking bar spacer directly above it , and tap 2-56 .
remove all other loose pieces and file the edges of the basic frame smooth .
these are supporting members for the short locking bars .
cut off excess screw lengths and file flush with either frame or nut .
locate the position from fig. 7 .
draw-file no. 1 tappet to a smooth fit in its respective slot and square the ends .
drill a no. 50 hole 1-1/4'' '' from one end and tap 2-56 .
) put a 2-56 roundhead screw into the hole , cut off the excess threads and file flush with the underside of the bar .
scribe a line across the bar on the other end of the tappet , 1/4'' '' plus half the diameter of the 2-56 screw head ( about 5/64'' '' ) away from the frame edge .
tend to make this dimension slightly undersize so you can file the screw head to get exactly 1/4'' '' tappet movement .
drill a no. 47 hole crosswise through the tappet at the position shown in figs. 7 and 8 .
to each tappet except 6 and 8 , solder a af piece of brass and file to the tapered shape shown in figs. 6 and 8 .
fitting the locking bars and making the locking pieces is a rather tedious job since stop screws , tappets and locking bars must be removed and replaced many times .
a little extra work here will pay off with a smooth , snug-fitting machine when you are finished .
the order of fitting is not too important .
since the same method of shaping and fitting the dogs and notches is used throughout , we will only describe the construction of one locking bar .
all the bars are cut from af brass .
bar `` c '' is 2-3/4'' '' long .
fig. 8 gives the dimensions for locating the dog-pin holes .
chuck a length of 1/8'' '' dia. drill rod into a drill press or some similar turning device and while it is rotating file the end square and then file a slight taper 1/8'' '' long .
file the bottom edge flush with the bar and the top 1/8'' '' above the bar .
place the locking bar in proper position and insert tappet 3 .
see the drawings for the shape of the notch .
we used the latter equipped with a carborundum disk about
such disks are very handy for cutting and shaping small parts .
a barrette swiss pattern file is handy since its triangular shape with only one cutting face will allow you to work a surface without marring an adjoining one .
the notch should have a smooth finish so that the steel dog will slide easily over it .
all matching surfaces should be checked frequently and mated on a cut and fit basis .
fashion a sharp scribing point about 3/64'' '' long on one end , using swiss pattern files .
scientists say that the world and everything in it are based on mathematics .
math and the formulas that allow it to be applied to different problems are , therefore , essential to any scientific endeavor .
it's not a science as involved as determining what makes the earth rotate on its axis or building a rocket or putting a satellite into orbit but it is , nevertheless , a science .
a guy can be an active and successful hot rodder for years without becoming even remotely involved with mathematical problems ; ;
a mathematical formula is nothing more than a pattern for solving a specific problem .
the first step in using a formula is to insert the numerical values of the factors involved in their correct positions in the formula .
the equation is used for the mathematical process of solving the problem .
they involve only simple mathematics that are taught in grammar school arithmetic classes .
they indicate simple division , multiplication , subtraction , and addition .
the lower number is always divided into the upper number : af
the symbol for multiplication is `` **b '' .
for example : af .
the result will be the same regardless of the order used .
this is nothing more than a dash .
the number on the right of the symbol is always subtracted from the number on the left of the symbol .
when more than two figures are separated by subtraction symbols the subtraction must be carried out from the left to right if the result is to be correct .
addition is indicated by the + symbol .
for example : af .
when solving an equation that involves division as well as other steps , do all the division steps first to reduce those parts of the equation to their numerical value .
completing the division first also includes those division parts that require multiplication , subtraction , or addition steps : af .
this part of the equation would then become 4 .
the easiest way to do this is with a conversion chart .
they are included in all types of mathematical handbooks and they are stamped on some types of precision measuring instruments .
shortening the results in this manner will not have any detrimental effect on the accuracy of the final result .
a constant is a number that remains the same regardless of the other numbers used in the formula and the resultant equation .
rodding formulas apply to many phases of the sport .
when it is needed , one formula is as important as another .
we'll take them in the general order of their popularity .
a rodder should be able to compute the displacement of his engine .
most entry blanks for competitive events require engine displacement information because of class restrictions .
factors involved in the displacement formula are the bore diameter of the engine's cylinders , the length of the piston stroke , the number of cylinders in the engine , and a constant .
pi is used in formulas concerned with the dimensions of circles .
the cross-sectional area of the cylinders is determined and then the volume of the individual cylinders is computed by multiplying the area by the stroke length , which is the equivalent of the length of the cylinders .
the formula is : af .
dimensions in centimeters and fractions of centimeters will give the displacement in cubic centimeters ( cc. ) .
these engines have a cylinder diameter of 3-7/8 inches and a stroke length of 3 inches .
to arrive at the answer , multiply the numbers together by starting at the left of the group and working to the right .
.
a cylinder's compression ratio is computed by comparing the cylinder's volume , or its displacement , with the total volume of the cylinder and its combustion chamber .
cylinder volume is determined in exactly the same manner as for the displacement formula : af .
then pour water or light oil from a graduated beaker into the chamber to fill the chamber to its gasket surface .
this is possible with water and other liquids that have a high surface tension .
the amount of liquid poured into the chamber is determined by subtracting the quantity still in the beaker when the chamber is full from the original quantity .
however , the displacement of the cylinder can be converted to cubic centimeters .
the only precaution is that all volumes used in the formula be quoted in the same terms .
sometimes it is necessary to roughly calculate the square inch area of the opening but the calculation can usually be made with sufficient accuracy that it won't affect the final computation .
another thing that must be taken into consideration is the volume of the area between the top of the piston and the top of the cylinder block when the piston is in top dead center position .
the formula for this step is : af .
the total of these three volumes is the `` final combustion chamber volume '' .
.
the compression ratio is 10 to 1 .
any irregularity on the piston heads will make it impossible , with normal means , to determine the final combustion chamber volume because the volume displaced by the piston heads cannot be readily computed .
gear ratio -- speed relationships
by using the appropriate version any one of these factors can be determined for any combination of the other three .
these are
, for engine crankshaft speed
, for tire size
tire size can be determined in several ways but the one that is the easiest and as accurate as any is by measuring the effective radius of a wheel and tire assembly .
a tire must be inflated to its normal hot operating pressure and the car must be loaded to its operating weight when this measurement is made .
any fraction of an inch involved in the measurement must be converted to a decimal equivalent to simplify the mathematics .
to determine car speed for a given combination of engine speed , gear ratio , and tire size , the formula is : af .
.
using the same figures as for the previous example , the equation becomes : af
to determine the rear axle gear ratio for a combination of the other three factors , the formula is : af .
orlando , fla. , feb. 2
she is owned by ralph h. kroening , milwaukee , wis. , who , according to the railbirds , can feel justly proud of her .
kimberly gal ( galophone-kimberly hanover ) 2:26.2 ; ;
laguerre hanover is outstanding in type and conformation -- good body , plenty of heart girth , stands straight on his legs on excellent feet -- and has the smoothest gait .
monel shows improvement with each work-out and looks the makings of a good brood mare after winning her share of races .
fury hanover ( hoot mon-fay ) , caper ( hoot mon-columbia hanover ) and isaac ( hoot mon-goddess hanover ) has been working together but have not equalled their best work done some weeks ago .
they are two good colts of different type .
i have never seen caper off his feet -- he seems to know nothing but ' trot ' and keeps trying a little harder if asked to do so .
trackdown ( torrid-mighty lady ) has worked a mile in 2:33.3 .
then , after emasculation , he was eased up for a couple of weeks .
thor hanover ( adios-trustful hanover ) is a wonderful looking prospect and another good individual , with solid , rugged conformation , good , flat bone and excellent feet .
he appeared in the hopples about november 14 , was treated for worms on the 18th , the latter date being the first time he struck a real pace .
this colt has done everything asked of him , and done it with ease .
gamecock ( tar heel-terka hanover ) is another promising colt , and his best time is 2:32.2 .
the first time he was harnessed he stood like a gentle old mare ; ;
the fourth time in harness he walked off like a gentleman .
but up to date he has shown as much as any in the big simpson stable .
torrid freight ( torrid-breeze on hal ) is a very rugged , strong-made colt with a wonderful stride who has done with ease everything asked of him .
strongheart ( adios-direct gal ) , a fair-looking sorrel colt , knows nothing but pace and has been right there in the best miles .
blistered for curbs and laid off three weeks , he is coming along fine and looks like a pacer to me .
his best time is 2:33.2 .
justine hanover ( sampson hanover-justitia hanover ) is improving with each work-out and paced 2:32.4 weeks ago .
hoopla ( tar heel-holiday hanover ) , a filly that wanted to trot , knocked herself october 31 and november 1 fighting the hopples .
this time she submitted and in a few days was going good .
on jan. 18 2:37.3--:36.1 ; ;
this filly is a much better individual than either of her full-sisters , valentine day and cerise -- more scale and much better underpinning .
up to date she is a grand-looking filly .
marquis pick ( gene abbe-direct grattan ) seems to be the pick of the stable at the present time .
his best mile to date is 2:28-:33 .
this colt is another fine-looking equine .
best time to date is 2:34-:34 .
most of billy haughton's 2-year-olds have worked from 2:40 to 2:35 .
hickory ash ( titan hanover-misty hanover ) in 2:35 .
she is a beautiful filly and likes to trot .
hickory spark ( harlan-hickory tiny ) 2:37 ; ;
faber's kathy ( faber hanover-ceyway ) 2:37 ; ;
the last-named is a fine-looking , large colt , who has been unfortunate to be laid off for some time due to injuries .
brief candle ( harlan-marcia ) has gone in 2:37 ; ;
martha rodney ( rodney-miss martha d. ) 2:35 ; ;
charm rodney ( rodney-the charmer ) 2:37 ; ;
custom maid ( knight dream-way dream ) 2:34.2 ; ;
good flying ( good time-olivette hanover ) 2:36 ; ;
faber's choice ( faber hanover-sally joe whippet ) 2:36 ; ;
duffy dares ( meadow gene-princess mite ) 2:36 ; ;
knightfall ( knight dream-miss worthy grapes ) 2:36 ; ;
trader jet ( florican-my precious ) 2:37 ; ;
good little girl ( good time-mynah hanover ) 2:36 ; ;
the last-named is one of the favorites in the stable , and the boys like her very much .
i have just seen debonnie and prompt time work a mile in 2:34 , last quarter in :35.3 .
they left the three-quarters together and finished almost together .
this filly is another adios that wants to trot , and trot she did until forced to do otherwise .
being placed in the hopples she was completely baffled .
rain on friday prevented many workouts , but there were a few miles of note on thursday .
lorena gallon ( bill gallon-loren hanover ) , 2:30-:34.3 ; ;
premium freight ( titan hanover-pebble hanover ) , 2:30.3-35.3 ; ;
monel ( tar heel-miracle byrd ) , 2:30.3-:36.1 ; ;
isaac ( hoot mon-goddess hanover ) , 2:30.3-:36 ; ;
lucky freight ( knight dream-lusty helen ) , 2:31.3-:35.3 .
riverboat ( dalzell-cousin rachel ) has gone in 2:38 .
jimmy jordon is high on adios scarlet ( adios-rena grattan ) and she sure looks good as she goes by .
he also likes hampton hanover ( titan hanover-bertie hanover ) 2:37 .
armbro comet ( nibble hanover-mauri hanover ) has been in 2:38 .
del mar , calif. , feb. 3
while 2-year-olds are still gaining most of the attention at the track , green horses are starting to go a bit , and jimmy cruise has several that can really make it .
eddie duke , p , 3 ( by duke of lullwater ) , marilyn c. , p ( by sampson hanover ) and chalidale barry , 5 ( by king's ransom ) in 2:20 ; ;
sherwood lass , 4 ( by victory song ) in 2:22 ; ;
for the aged horses : mr. budlong , p , 2:00.2 , lottie thomas , p , 2:04.2 , mighty signal 2:03 , clever braden , p , 2:01.1 , and glow star , p , 2:02.3 have been in 2:35 ; ;
carter creed , p , 3 , 2:01.1 , great lullwater 2:00.3 , and hi jay , p , 2:05.1 have been in 2:30 ; ;
stormy dream , p , 2:01.3 , demon abbe , p , 2:02 , dundeen b. , 4 , 2:04.2 , claudia's song , 3 , 2:06.3 , and ( jet fire , 4 , 2:02.2 have been in 2:25 ; ;
mocking byrd , p , 2:01.1 has been in 2:12 , with a racing date approaching at bay meadows .
victory sun , p , 2:04 has trained in 2:24 ; ;
the average reader of this magazine owns more than one gun ( we ran a survey to find out ) but he's always on the lookout for new and better arms .
he's a real hunter and shooter , eager to improve his sport .
you've probably given a lot of christmas-season thought to the guns in your rack , but it's not easy to decide on a new one .
the time to decide on them is now .
here they are , with my comments and judgments .
first on my own list would be two arms -- a rifle and a handgun -- that qualify as new in the strictest sense .
such modifications are all for the best but it takes something as different as a deerstalker or a jet to change arms-making concepts .
it's a short , light , quick-handling , fast-firing little timber gun designed to push a heavy slug at modest velocity but with lots of killing power and ample range for our most popular big game -- whitetail .
small antelope were generally grassed with one shot , and the magnum carbine also bagged reedbuck , kob and wart hog with deadly efficiency ; ;
the deadliness of the magnum in a rifle comes as no surprise to me .
after figuring out how to regulate the barrels so that they shot to the same point of impact , we fired this little 20-inch-barrel job on my home range and in marlin's underground test gallery .
ruger learned that this was because the higher velocity achieved in a long barrel was upsetting the shape of the unjacketed revolver bullet .
but even without jacketed bullets , i had enough faith in my double to take it on an opening-day deer hunt that first year .
he moved only about 30 feet after the 240-grain slug hit him -- and this was after the bullet had passed through a sapling .
my double was made with standard-weight revolver barrels ( before cutting to revolver length ) , and although it compares well in other respects , it's considerably heavier than the deerstalker , which only scales about 6-1/2 pounds .
the deerstalker points with the ease , speed and precision of a fine imported double shotgun , and its trigger pull is light and sharp .
with five shots at the immediate command of the hunter's trigger finger , the gun and load are a deadly combination .
remington jet magnum center fire .
the velocity of this
this is a varmint load , pure and simple ; ;
it can cut a red squirrel neatly in two or burst a crow into a flurry of feathers .
rim-fires by means of adapter sleeves in the chambers .
the accuracy of the jet cartridge is fine ; ;
hunting rifles , '61
aside from the ruger carbine , a number of hunting rifles have been introduced for the first time .
newcomers to the american hunter are the browning group of bolt-action , high-power rifles .
barrel weights vary sensibly with the various calibers available , and these include the standard bores ( about $165 ) plus the magnums ( around $170 ) ; ;
, s & h , , and .
.
colt's center-fire 1961 rifles are all made with sako actions , regardless of caliber .
have the short action ; ;
and , the medium action , and the
previously , fn actions were used for the larger cartridges .
auto , the sport-king , in two grades -- field and special ( less than $45 and just over $45 , respectively ) .
among
previously known as jefferson arms , kodiak has given this 11-shot hammerless job an exceptionally fine stock design , and the 260 is the first autoloader to handle
marlin has made two contributions to the harvest of new offerings .
rim-fire auto with a tubular magazine that holds 18 long rifles .
the 989 ( about $40 ) is an even newer
once again the mossberg targo outfit has appeared , but this time as a bolt-action rifle-shotgun combination .
you can unscrew this tube and replace it with a smoothbore insert for use with
a trap for throwing these miniature clays fastens to the barrel so that the shooter can throw his own targets .
you can have your choice of a seven-shot repeater , the 340tr ( about $40 ) or a single-shot , the 320tr ( $10 less ) .
they'll travel 50 feet or more when thrown from the spring trap but it's almost impossible to break one after it passes the 35-foot mark .
big magnum calibers appeared in the remington line for 1961 , with the addition of the and to the list of model 725's .
they weigh around nine pounds .
this carbine ( under $140 , about $15 more for a deluxe grade ) has an 18-1/2-inch barrel and was obviously inspired by the popularity of last year's model 760 pump with a short-barrel .
presently , the 742c is available in af .
the replacement of the slide-lock side safety catch will make this lever-action favorite more appealing than ever since the new safety is easier and faster to operate .
a fresh crop of beginners' guns showed up in 1961 , and they're good bets for your christmas gift list if you're wondering what to get for a youngster .
because of its traditional lines , it probably has more kid appeal than any other model .
rim-fires .
this is the model 122 ( about $20 ) ; ;
stock design is excellent , and this model is a good first gun .
single-shot remington 514c ( around $20 ) , which comes with a 21-inch barrel and a short -- 12-1/2-inch -- stock ; ;
a beginner's shotgun has also been introduced this year .
this gun has a 12-1/2-inch stock and is available in either 20 or gauge .
many experienced hunters like this gauge and type of scattergun too .
although there were no startling developments in shotgun design this year , a number of new models and variations of existing models did hit the market .
the colt line now includes a new scattergun , the standard or custom pump model ( about $90 and $150 , respectively ) in 12 , 16 and 20 .
it's the valmet ( about $170 ) , a 12-gauge over/under very much like the old remington 32 -- which was so fine a gun that today a used one still brings high prices .
the supermatic trophy ( prices begin at less than $135 and depend on grade and optional features ) is a 12-gauge auto .
either model is a very good dollar value .
this is an improved version of the old model 200 , a pump-action 12-gauge shotgun .
handguns , '61
jet -- which i coupled with the deerstalker carbine as one of the year's two biggest developments -- few significant innovations appeared among 1961's handguns .
coaching had declined considerably by 1905 , but the sign was still there , near the old wells fargo building in san francisco , creaking in the fog as it had for thirty years .
coaching was in his blood .
twice a week he drove his tallyho over the santa cruz road , upland and through the redwood forest , with orchards below him at one hand , and glimpses of the pacific at the other .
the southward route was the classic run in california , and the most fashionable .
they did not complain at the inhuman hour of starting ( seven in the morning ) , nor of the tariff , which was reasonable since it covered everything but the tobacco .
gazing too long at the scenery could be tiring , so halts were contrived between meals .
in spring and in autumn the run was made for a group of botanists which included an old friend of mine .
in the spanish days franciscan monks roamed here to collect the resin for incense .
vernon was serviceable on the botanical field trips , but he could arrange no schedule with the cooks , and he was glad when the trips dropped off , and the botanists began to motor out by themselves .
this was an honor , like dining with a captain at his private table .
they advertised harness polish , liniments , ball's rubber boots , green river whiskey , hood's sarsaparilla , patent medicines , shoe blacking , and chewing tobacco .
then a porter from manning's fish house would trot in with a tray on his head .
vernon was consummately fond of oysters , and manning's had been famous for them since the civil war .
its early morning patrons were coachmen , who fortified themselves for the day with that delicacy .
this dish much resembles the oysters rockefeller made famous by antoine's in new orleans , though the palace chef announced it as a variant of manning's roast oysters .
antoine's held as mandatory a splash of absinthe or pernod on the parsley or spinach which was used for the underbedding .
) vernon , however , held out for plain oyster roast , and plenty of it , unadorned by herbs or any seasoning but salt , though he did fancy a bit of lemon .
this was merely a ritual , to please all hands concerned .
a replica of two coaches made in england for the belmont club in the east , and matchless west of the rockies , it was the despair of whips on the santa cruz run .
the horses were groomed to a high gloss ; ;
but for the start of the santa cruz run , the whip fell .
they had been fed a hunting breakfast , so called because a kedgeree , the dish identified with fox hunting , was on the bill .
here is an original kedgeree recipe from the family club's kitchen :
flake ( for three ) a cupful of cold boiled haddock , mix with a cupful of cooked rice , two minced hard-boiled eggs , some buttery white sauce done with cream , cayenne , pepper , salt , a pinch of curry , a tablespoonful of minced onion fried , and a bit of anchovy .
the omelet named for ernest arbogast , the palace's chef , was even more in demand .
native california oysters , salty and piquant , as coppery as delawares and not much larger than a five-cent piece , went into it .
omelet arbogast
a jigger of dry sherry follows , and as the mixture stiffens , in go a hundred of the little oysters .
as things happened , morgan was installed in the nob hill residence of a magnate friend , whose kitchen swarmed with cooks of approved talent .
twice he left everything to his entourage , and fled to make the santa cruz tour under vernon's guidance .
it was a post of honor , held inviolate for him ; ;
of majestic build , rubicund and slash-mouthed , he resembled the late general winfield scott , who was said to be the most imposing general of his century , if not of all centuries .
promptly at seven he would clatter out of the court with twelve in the tallyho .
they cantered down the peninsula , not slackening until the coach reached woodside where the santa cruz uplands begin .
inns have burned down , moved elsewhere , or taken other names .
an agreeable ease suffused vernon and the passengers of the tallyho , from which there issued clouds of smoke .
the horses moved at a clump ; ;
one fork of the road was as good as another .
the water splashes into shoulder-high tracts of fernery .
vernon kept an account book with a list of all the establishments that he thought worthy of patronage .
they were struck out with remarks in red ink , denouncing both the cooks and the management .
the horses seemed to know these by instinct , he used to say : such places invariably had stables with superior feed bins .
many of its sojourners were devoted to seclusion and quiet , and lived there to the end of their days .
acorns from the great oaks fed the small black pigs ( akin to berkshires ) , whose `` carcass sweepstakes '' were renowned .
wright's devil sauce
put into a saucepan a cupful of the baked ham gravy , or of the boiled ham liquor , with a half stick of butter , three teaspoonfuls of made mustard , and two mashed garlic cloves .
after this has simmered an hour , add two tablespoons each of worcestershire , catsup , and chutney , two pickled walnuts , and a pint of sherry .
every winter a kegful of this sauce was made and placed at the end of a row of four other kegs in the cellar , so that when its turn came , it was properly mellowed .
they leaped six-foot fences with the agility of panthers .
no one complained of the white wine either : at this altitude of two thousand feet , grapes acquire a dryness and the tang of gunflint .
) apple trees grew there also .
dwellers thereabouts preferred to get their apple pies at the local bakery , which had a brick oven fired with redwood billets .
the recipe , which he got from the baker , and wrote down in his ledger , is basically this :
; ;
in a saucepan put sufficient water to cover them , an equal amount of sugar , a sliced lemon , a tablespoonful of apricot preserve or jam , a pinch each of clove and nutmeg , and a large bay leaf .
poach the apples in this syrup for twelve minutes , drain them , and cool .
those who have never traveled the width and length of this land cannot conceive , on the basis of textbook description alone , the overwhelming space and variety of this country held together under one government .
the sky-reaching peaks of the northwest mountains ; ;
the lush and historic charm of the south .
to hope to cover just one region of this land and to enjoy all of its sights and events and , of course , to bring back pictures of your experiences , requires advance planning .
we divided the country into five regions plus hawaii and alaska and in each is included a general description of the area plus specific recommendations of places and events to cover .
use this section to plan now to make the most of your vacation in photogenic america .
birthplace of the nation , the northeast offers historic battlefields ; ;
the rolling farms of maryland , the peerless metropolis of new york city , the verdant mountains of vermont can all be included in your northeast vacation .
to washington , d.c. , for an eye-filling tour of the city ; ;
philadelphia with its historic buildings and nearby valley forge ; ;
new england deserves as much of your vacation time as you can afford with such areas as cape cod providing wonderful beaches , artists' colonies and quaint townships .
at sturbridge village , massachusetts , you'll find a completely-restored new england town .
one of the most exciting ways to end a northeast vacation would be with a week in new york city .
there you'll witness a view which includes the adirondack mts. and the winooski river .
the skyline , the bridges , broadway , and the staten island ferry are only a few of the spots to put on your `` must '' list for new york city .
some tips for shooting in northeastern locales : in new york city don't miss coverage of the united nations .
pictures can be taken in the public areas and when on tours .
photos of conference rooms and the general assembly hall can be made when these rooms are not being used for meetings .
around new england , you'll no doubt want a color shot of one of the picturesque lighthouses .
in color , 1/50th of a second between af and af will do for bright , frontal sunlight .
the southern united states , extending from florida in the east to texas in the west , still maintains its unique flavor of gracious living and historical elegance .
of special interest this anniversary year of the war between the states are the many civil war battlefields where , likely as not , you'll catch some memorial re-enactments .
lookout mountain , tennessee ; ;
richmond , virginia ; ;
florida provides tropical scenes unequalled in the united states .
silver springs features glass-bottom boat rides and in everglades national park there are opportunities to photograph rare wildlife .
one of the most delightful spots in a southern tour is the city of new orleans .
for restoration of early american life the places to visit are williamsburg , jamestown and yorktown , virginia .
the great state of texas offers metropolitan attractions such as the dallas fair park with its art and natural history museums .
in san antonio visit the famous alamo and photograph 18th century spanish buildings and churches .
along the 127-mile route through great smoky mountains national park you can photograph the breath-taking peaks , gorges and valleys which come into view at every turn .
another scenic spot in tennessee is chattanooga where the rock city gardens are not to be missed .
at charlottesville , va. , shoot monticello and the beautiful buildings of the university .
foliage is the outstanding photo subject in many of the southern locales mentioned above and some specific tips on how and where to shoot it are in order .
exposure problems may occur in these forest areas where uneven lighting results from shafts of sunlight filtering through the overhead branches .
in any instance , you should determine the exposure according to the type of light which falls on most of the subject area .
for shooting the interiors of the famous ante-bellum southern mansions make sure your equipment includes a tripod .
for some unusual photographic subjects , if your vacation takes you nearby , try these events : the 600-mile auto race in charlotte , n.c. , , on may 27 ; ;
singing on the mountain in linville , north carolina , on june 25 .
the midwest
lake michigan offers swimming and pictures which combine cityscapes with beaches .
wisconsin dells , where fantastically scenic rocks carved by the wisconsin river are overgrown with fern and other foliage , rates a stopover when traveling from chicago .
in north dakota the strangely beautiful badlands will challenge you to translate its wonder on to film .
another spot with an image-provoking name is the black hills where you can visit the old frontier mining town of deadwood .
of course , while in this vicinity you won't want to miss a visit to mount rushmore national memorial where on the side of a mountain are the famous sculptures of presidents washington , lincoln , jefferson and theodore roosevelt .
similarly in illinois there is lincoln country to be seen -- his tomb and other landmarks .
itasca state park , where the mississippi river begins , is one of the outstanding tourist spots in minnesota .
of current interest is abilene , kansas , the birthplace of ex-president eisenhower .
for a resort area , mackinack island , michigan , is the place to visit .
pictures of the midwest
just after sunset is a good time to record the city lights in color since you get a `` fill-in '' light from the sky .
photos of historic dioramas of the area you visit will add depth and background to your vacation photo story .
special events and their dates which will make interesting shooting in the midwest area , include the following :
the world-renowned 500-mile auto race at indianapolis , indiana , plus a festival from may 27-30 ; ;
michigan offers the lovely tulip festival in holland , michigan , may 12-14 ; ;
and the international freedom festival in detroit , june 29 thru july 4 .
the west
a tour of several of them is possible in a two-week vacation while a stay at just one of these natural beauty spots can be of equal reward .
among its most spectacular features are its falls , the highest being upper yosemite which drops 2,425 feet .
in the utah area are zion national park and bryce canyon national park .
colorado's grand canyon , probably the most famous landmark of the united states , can be the highpoint of your western vacation .
it is an exotic place , so different from the ordinary that the casual tourist is likely to see at first only the contrast and the ugliness of narrow streets lined with haphazard houses .
whole blocks are disappearing and more are scheduled to vanish to make room for wide boulevards that will show off its treasures to better advantage -- the great domes and graceful spires of its mosques , the panorama of the bosphorus and the golden horn .
for almost 3,000 years europe and asia have rubbed shoulders in its streets .
about a thousand years after that , when the roman empire was divided , it became capital of the eastern section .
in 1453 when the last vestige of ancient roman power fell to the turks , the city officially shifted religions -- although the patriarch , or pope , of the orthodox church continued to live there , and still does -- and became the capital of the ottoman empire .
rich in christian and moslem art , istanbul is today a fascinating museum of east and west that recently became a seaside resort as well with the development of new beaches on the bosphorus and the sea of marmara only a short distance from the center of town .
start of tour
i started my tour of them at the turkish government tourist office , next to pan american's office on the left as you enter the driveway that leads to the hilton hotel .
directly across from the gardens i found a bus stop sign for t 4 and rode it down to the bosphorus , with the sports center on my left just before i reached the water and the entrance to dolmabahce palace immediately after that .
across the bridge on the left i saw st. sophia with its sturdy brown minarets and to the right of them the slenderer spires of the blue mosque .
passing it , the bus climbed a hill , with the covered spice bazaar on the right and pandelli's , a famous and excellent restaurant , above it .
i got off there , crossed the street , walked ahead with st. sophia on my left , the blue mosque on my right , and in a moment came to the entrance of st. sophia .
on his first trip to the finished structure he boasted that he had built a temple grander than solomon's in jerusalem .
nevertheless , it remained one of the most splendid churches of the eastern empire , where the byzantine emperors were crowned .
in the second half of the sixteenth century , sinan , the great architect who is the michelangelo of the east , designed the massive buttresses that now help support the dome .
inside over the first door i saw one of these , which shows constantine offering the city to the virgin mary and justinian offering the temple .
the eight green columns , i learned , came from the temple of artemis at ephesus , the others , red , from the temple of the sun at heliopolis .
behind this is a minber or moslem pulpit and near it a raised platform with golden grillwork , where the emperors and , after them , the sultans , sat .
outside st. sophia i walked through the flower garden in front of it , with the blue mosque ahead on my left .
it was laid out in 196 for chariot races and other public games .
at the beginning of the hippodrome i saw the kaiser's fountain , an ugly octagonal building with a glass dome , built in 1895 by the german emperor , and on my left , directly across from it , the tomb of sultan ahmet , who constructed the blue mosque , more properly known by his name .
this one was set up here in 390 a.d. on a pedestal , the faces of which are carved with statues of the emperor and his family watching games in the hippodrome , done so realistically that the obelisk itself is included in them .
near the end of the hippodrome i came upon the built column , a truncated obelisk of blocks , all that remains of a monument that once rivalled the colossus of rhodes .
retracing my steps to the mosque of sultan ahmet , only one with six minarets , i entered the courtyard , with a gallery supported by pointed arches running around it and a fountain in the middle .
the round minarets , tall and graceful , rise from rectangular bases and have three platforms from which the muezzin can chant his call to prayer .
back at the kaiser's fountain , i walked left to the streetcar stop and rode up the hill -- any car will do -- past the column of constantine , also known as the burnt column , at the top on my right .
i stayed on the car for a few minutes until , turning right , it entered a huge square , bayezit , with the bayezit mosque on the right and the gate to the university just beyond it .
called the marmara gazinosu , it is on the third floor , with signs pointing the way there , and has a terrace overlooking the sea of marmara .
it's a great favorite of the university students , and i joined them there for dessert .
actually an underground cistern , its roof supported by rows and rows of pillars , it was built by justinian in the sixth century to supply the palace with water .
i found it fairly depressing and emerged almost immediately .
just before reaching it i came to a grey and brown stone building that looks somewhat like an oriental pagoda , with arabic lettering in gold and colored tile decorations -- the fountain of sultan ahmet .
passing through the gate , with towers on either side once used as prisons , i entered a huge square surrounded by buildings , and on the wall to my right found a general plan of the grounds , with explanations in english for each building .
at one time about 10,000 people lived there .
next to it is a copper section , with cooking utensils and a figure of the chief cook in an elaborate , floor-length robe .
going through a door into another small court , i had the throne room directly in front .
they are made of gold and covered with emeralds , pearls and other jewels .
( do start fires one or two hours ahead of time to obtain a lasting bed of glowing coals .
do line barbecue fire bowl with heavy foil to reflect heat .
clean it meticulously in boiling water and detergent , rinse thoroughly .
make use of the back of the barbecue or of the hood for heating vegetables , sauces and such .
sear on both sides then cover meat loosely with heat reflecting foil for juiciest results .
if doubtful about a steak , boldly cut it in half .
for roasts , insert meat thermometer diagonally so it does not rest on bone .
don't practice a new recipe on guests .
do buy meat the day or the day before you intend to cook it .
don't plan meals that are too complicated .
keep the desserts simple ; ;
do whatever kitchen work , such as fixing a salad , preparing garlic bread , or making a marinade sauce , ahead of time .
( this goes for getting a drink tray ready , and for having a big cooler full of ice on hand long before the party begins .
don't think you have to start with the most expensive equipment in the world .
you need tongs to handle meat ; ;
heavy foil on hand at all times .
do keep the grill high enough above the fire so that when fat from meat drips down and flares up , flames cannot reach the meat .
made of the world's toughest unbreakable plastic , melamine dinnerware comes in almost 400 different patterns and dozens of colors .
do without fancy tablecloths .
or buy half a dozen lengths of oilcloth and change patterns for different kinds of barbecues .
tougher than plastic , it wears well .
there are many varieties of coolers and they serve many purposes .
do use paper napkins ; ;
except when you prepare `` do it yourself '' shish kebob or a lobster roast .
don't think barbecue cooking is just sometimes , or seasonal .
in the winter , hibachi in the kitchen or grill over the logs of the fireplace .
summertime supper , outside , is a natural .
do buy all-purpose mugs or cups .
be sure to get a few more than you need .
don't forget the joys of a meal on the road .
decide in the beginning to put your barbecue equipment to work .
a picnic bag , a grill , a cooler for soft drinks and beer , and for frozen convenience foods .
or just evenings .
you need a little stove , a coffee pot and a stew pot ; ;
as you pull out of your motel or national park home-for-the-night , visit a market and buy just what you need for the next meal .
simple meat dishes
you only have to think of franks and sausages to know what i mean .
threaded on a skewer with new boiled potatoes , a bit of green pepper , a fresh white mushroom -- any one of these spiced meats makes a man a cook , and a meal a feast .
a story goes that a certain herr feuchtwanger of st. louis , around 1883 served his sausages ( grilled ) and mustard to his fancy customers .
discovery that the gloves frequently left with the customers made the wise peddler of spiced sausage-meat come upon a compromise .
years later , franks-in-buns were accepted as the `` first to go '' at the new york polo grounds .
either way it's hard to beat in flavor as well as ease of preparation .
-- score each frankfurter in four or five places about a third of the way through .
-- relishes are as vital to the success of the frank as are buns .
-- using a portable grill permits you to toast the buns , too .
-- an unusual flavor can be achieved by marinating the franks in french dressing or a mixture of honey , lemon juice and brown sugar prior to the picnic .
contrary to popular opinion , `` a la mode '' doesn't mean `` with ice cream '' -- it just means , in the latest style .
you'll have the neighbor's eyes popping as well as their mouths watering ! !
1 cup chili sauce 1/3 cup water 1 tablespoon barbecue sauce 2 teaspoons prepared mustard 1/2 pound chipped , spiced ham 6 sandwich buns , heated
combine first 4 ingredients in saucepan ; ;
add ham ; ;
serve on buns .
hot hibachi franks
the fun of toasting their own sausages over the small oriental charcoal burners and dipping them in tasty sauces will keep your group busy -- try it and see ! !
sweet-sour sauce
.
2 tablespoons dry mustard water 1/2 cup heavy cream , whipped salt paprika
spear canned cocktail franks with picks .
make sauces ahead .
mustard cream , used as alternate dip for franks and pineapple tidbits , tastes best when served at room temperature .
add remaining ingredients and bring to a boil .
to prepare mustard cream , blend mustard with enough water to make a thin paste .
trim-your-own-franks
be sure to have plenty of frankfurters and buns on hand .
serve the chili and kraut hot with the franks .
chili con carne : use canned chili con carne .
coney island sauce : finely chop several onions and add enough catsup to moisten well ; ;
3 .
add a few caraway seeds , too , if you'd like .
1/2 cup minced celery 1/4 cup minced onion 1/2 cup tomato ketchup 1/2 cup water 1/4 cup vinegar 2 tablespoons brown sugar 1 tablespoon worcestershire sauce 1 tablespoon prepared mustard 1/2 teaspoon salt 8 frankfurters
combine first 9 ingredients in skillet .
prick frankfurters with fork ; ;
cover ; ;
serve in frankfurter buns or as a meat dish .
pretend ham
stick 4 or 5 cloves in each frank , ham fashion .
if desired , sprinkle with 1 teaspoon drained crushed pineapple .
roast on grill over coals 15-20 minutes .
blend 2 cups biscuit mix with 2/3 cup milk to make a soft dough .
spread dough with a mixture of 3 tablespoons chili sauce , 1 teaspoon horse-radish and 2 teaspoons mustard .
twist one strip diagonally around each skinless frankfurter , pinching dough at ends to seal it .
serves 12 .
1 pound ground beef 2 teaspoons grated onion dash of pepper 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup chopped walnuts 1/4 cup ice cold bourbon
combine ingredients ; ;
note :
instructions for preparing clay , drying , glazing and firing are not given .
basic pottery studio equipment .
materials :
stoneware clay for tiles .
general directions :
clean wooden molds and presses thoroughly ; ;
pressing designs :
roll clay to thickness indicated in individual instructions .
when mold has more than one design cavity , make individual paper patterns .
experiment with defects for decoration techniques of glazes and colors ) .
to obtain clear impression of mold , press clay gently but firmly into mold cavity , starting at center and working to outer edges .
check thickness of clay and build up thin areas by moistening surface with a little water and adding small pieces of clay .
allow project to stand for about five minutes ( if wooden press mold is a good antique , do not leave clay in too long as the dampness may cause mold to crack ) .
gently lift the edge on far side , then continue to release edge completely around mold .
place a piece of plaster wall board or plaster bat on clay and reverse bat , clay and mold in one action .
place project on table and carefully lift the mold off .
if clay is slightly out of shape , square straight sides with guide sticks or rulers pressed against opposite sides , or smooth round pieces with damp fingers .
make slight , smooth grooves rather than cuts for the texture ( cuts could cause air pockets under the glaze creating pinholes or craters in the glaze during firing ) .
rectangular tiles
clay was rolled to 1/4'' '' thickness .
no bisque firing .
decorated on unfired glaze with one coat of one-stroke ceramic colors ; ;
tiles were fired once to cone 05 .
( opposite page , bottom ) : white clay was used , rolled to 1/4'' '' thickness .
stained with jacquelyn's ceramic unfired stain , polished , following manufacturer's directions .
no further firing .
( opposite page , top left ) : red clay was used , rolled 1/2'' '' thick .
while clay is still pressed in mold , press three equally spaced holes 1/4'' '' deep , using pencil eraser , in bottom of clay to allow for proper drying and firing .
bisque fired to cone 05 .
jars with lids
fill small hole in bowl with clay .
measurements for rectangular pattern piece a are obtained by measuring inside circumference and depth of butter mold bowl .
use wooden design head of mold for pattern c ; ;
pattern for inner lid piece e fits inside aj .
use white or buff clay , rolled to 3/16'' '' thickness .
place clay pieces on wall board .
line sides of mold with paper pattern aj .
place clay piece a inside ; ;
join b to bottom of a , scoring and reinforcing with clay coil .
to assemble lid , press clay piece c in cavity of wooden design head .
score plain side of c and leave in mold .
score other side of d and one side of disk e and join as before .
if design head has a deep cavity , clay lid will be quite thick at this point ; ;
check fit of lid on jar ; ;
remove lid from head of mold .
place jar on plaster board with lid in place to dry slowly .
for an antique effect on jars , brush creek-turn brown toner on bisque ware and sponge it off .
the large jar was brushed with creek-turn green toner and sponged off .
when dry they were fired to cone 06-05 .
( made from modern wooden molds af .
salt and pepper :
for top and bottom pieces , use short end of mold as measurement guide .
trim excess clay from rim of mold .
score beveled edges and remove pieces from mold ; ;
make all four sides .
place on plaster board .
to assemble :
join the four sides together first , then add the base ; ;
use water on finger to smooth seams and edges .
recess base slightly to allow room for stopper .
add holes in top , forming `` s '' for salt and `` p '' for pepper .
sugar and creamer :
press clay into cavity of one mold three times ; ;
form clay strip into a cylinder ; ;
place cylinder on a disk of clay slightly larger than cylinder .
trim away excess clay ; ;
this will form the sugar bowl .
handle for creamer is a strip of clay 1/2'' '' wide and 3-1/2'' '' long .
score outside of container where handle ends will be joined .
press scored handle ends firmly in place using dowel to reinforce container while pressing ; ;
to form spout , between two designs , dampen area slightly and gently push clay outward .
cut a notch in lid for spoon handle if desired .
vases :
vases may be made into candles by filling with melted wax and a wick .
cut a piece of clay for base and two for sides each about af ( long enough for three impressions of mold ) .
put cut pieces on plaster board to dry to firm leather-hard state .
join sides and base with slip and reinforce with coil .
place pattern inside holder ; ;
do not use wood as it will not shrink with the clay and would cause breakage .
clean greenware .
inside of pieces was glazed with three coats of creek-turn bottle green antique glaze .
fired to cone 06-05 .
to change from one color yarn to another :
photograph shows the wrong side of work with light strand being picked up under dark strand in position to be purled .
spread article on flat surface to required width before measuring length at center .
to measure armhole :
place work on a flat surface and smooth out .
see illustration .
when directions read `` sl a marker on needle '' , put a small safety pin , paper clip , or commercial ring marker on needle .
to mark a row or stitch , tie contrasting thread around end of row or stitch to be marked .
to sew seams with backstitch :
pin right sides of pieces together , keeping edges even and matching rows or patterns .
run end of yarn through several stitches along edge to secure ; ;
do not draw yarn too tight .
to sew in sleeves :
ease in any extra fullness evenly around .
weaving seam
straight vertical edges , such as those at the back seam of a sock , can be woven together invisibly .
hold edges together , right side up .
menfolk can ride in the forward cockpit where the helmsman has a clear view .
the gals can sun themselves in the roomy aft cockpit .
and with passenger weight shifted forward , hotei levels off for speed under power of a merc 800 .
with only two aboard , hotei does better than 27 mph -- and she gives a comfortable ride at this speed even in a three-foot chop .
nor is she a wet boat .
a lot of thought went into storage space construction .
the cabin has several shelves for small items and storage under the bunks for water skiis , life jackets , etc. .
on each side of the motor well there's storage for battery , bumpers , line and spare props with six-gallon gas tanks below .
needless to say , you can't build hotei in a couple of weeks .
a comparable manufactured boat would cost close to $3,000 .
a gator trailer , model 565 , is used to transport the boat to the waterways .
all framing in hotei is one-inch mahogany which , in the dressed state you buy it , is about the 13/16-inch thickness specified in the drawings .
besides flathead bronze screws , silicon bronze stronghold nails ( made by independent nail & packing co. , bridgewater , mass. ) are used extensively in assembly and weldwood resorcinol glue is used in all the joints .
start by laying out the six frames and the transom on a level floor .
in this way you will be able to detect any obvious mistakes .
after notching it for the keelson , chines and battens , the half-inch plywood transom is secured to it with glue and the same type nails .
the frames are notched only for the keelson and the chines .
nowhere in the boat do the frames come in contact with the plywood planking .
this is an important step because any misalignment would cause progressively worse misalignment in the hull as you advance in construction .
after the frames and transom are set up on the jig and temporarily braced , a piece of three-inch-wide mahogany ( only widths will be given since the 13/16-inch thickness is used throughout ) is butted between frames one and two below the line of the keelson .
the joints are also reinforced on each side with small blocks set in resin-saturated fiberglas cloth and nailed .
the keelson , made of two three-inch widths , is next installed .
the second piece is in turn glued and screwed to the first .
one-inch , no. 10 screws are used in both cases .
the stem is laminated from four pieces .
then spread a generous amount of glue on the four pieces and bend them into place on the jig .
the second two pieces lap over the inner member of the keelson and butt against the outer member .
a number of c clamps hold the pieces together on the jig until the glue sets .
the side ones are a half-inch narrower .
glue and 1-1/2-inch , no. 10 screws are used .
with the exception of two battens , all run to the stem where they are glued and screwed after careful beveling .
fairing is always a tedious job but the work can be cut down considerably with a skill planer and a simple jig .
the aluminum , flush against the battens , acted as a fairing stick and enabled me to plane the chines and keelson to the proper bevels easily .
the planking is five-ply , 3/8-inch-thick weldwood royal marine plywood .
the 42-inch width leaves very little waste .
plank the sides first , using glue and one-inch , no. 12 stronghold nails at all battens , the stem and the transom .
the best procedure is to have a few friends hold the planking in place while you mark it off .
i used a homemaster routo-jig made by porter cable for this job .
when cut , the planking is clamped in place for a final and careful trimming .
it may then be pre-drilled for the fastenings .
then it is replaced and fastened .
after planking , the bottom gets a layer of fiberglas .
then the chines are rounded off and the bottom is rough-sanded in preparation .
the cloth is laid on one half of the bottom at a time .
lay the cloth in place and trim it to size .
when the resin has hardened , mix up another batch with a pigment added if you wish .
using a cheap brush , coat one side of the bottom with the resin and then apply the cloth .
be sure it is well saturated and then allow it to harden .
then lay a three-inch-wide strip of cloth along the keel line from the transom to the point of the stem .
this protects the bottom in beaching .
they will also supply literature on application .
i set it on the gator trailer .
for added strength , i also fastened a small block on each side of every frame and batten joint .
after trimming off the excess on the frames and transom which was used to fasten them to the jig at a working height , the top of the side planking is installed .
these flaring parts really help to keep the boat dry .
the sides of the motor well run from the bottom battens to the top and from frame six to the transom , forming a real strong transom brace .
the decking is quarter-inch mahogany marine plywood .
most floor battens are glued and screwed to the flooring .
these battens are glued and screwed to the frames .
use one coat of firzite and one coat of marine paint .
after the decking is on , the cabin sides are installed .
the windshield glass is shatterproof and plexiglas is used in the cabin .
a head is a handy thing to have and i installed one under a removable section of the port bunk .
for padding the seats and bunks , i used ensolite , type aj .
available in af sheets , it costs about a dollar a square foot .
it is a full scale , small , but efficient house that can become a year 'round retreat complete in every detail .
most of it is panelized and utilizes standard materials , and requires the use of only simple tools .
in recognition of the growing trend for second homes , or vacation cottages , we have designed this one specifically with the family handyman in mind .
but each step has been broken down into easy stages , utilizing standard materials and simple tools , well within the capabilities of the handyman .
the idea behind our design is modular units , or panelization .
wall panels and structural timbers are standard as are windows and doors , making for a minimum of cutting .
thus , when you have prepared your foundation and laid the floor , these can be trucked to the site and erected with a small crew of friends in a weekend .
then you can do the finishing touches at your leisure .
due to the fact that building codes and regulations vary so much throughout the country , the first thing to do is to find out what , if any , they are .
in a remote section there might be no restrictions at all .
at the same time check the electrical , plumbing , and sanitary requirements , as well as possible zoning regulations .
be sure that this information is reasonably official and not just an unfounded opinion .
where a building permit is required , find out what you must present when applying for one .
these will be available at cost from our plans department .
some general things to look for in a site , if you haven't already bought one , are accessibility , water drainage , and orientation .
is there evidence of wash-outs on the property ; ;
a visit in the early spring after a thaw will be very informative .
will the view be something you can live with ? ?
we will take up alternative foundations later on .
with this first issue we give you a list of the materials needed to build the basic ( aja version ) and the expandable ( ajb version ) .
this will permit you to get a rough estimate of how much the materials for the shell will cost .
the wall panels are constructed of a framework of standard af and af of a good grade , free from structural faults .
the outside surface of the solid units shall be of an exterior grade of panel board such as plywood , plastic coated panel board , high density particle board , asbestos-cement board , or any other product locally obtainable upon recommendation of your building supply dealer .
all panel board comes in standard af foot size .
the fixed window panels with louvers should have a good grade of 1/8-inch double-strength glass set in a mastic glazing compound .
there are standard sliding glass windows in wood or aluminum frames for those panels requiring them .
the filler panels for the gable ends are cut from full af sheets as shown , leaving no wastage .
all nails should be rustproof , and aluminum is highly recommended .
other thicknesses may necessitate ripping a special size lumber for the glass trim .
with modern techniques of woodworking and the multitude of cutting tools , fixtures , and attachments available , the drill press has become a basic home workshop tool .
there is often a means of locking the quill and , on larger presses , the table can be tilted .
a press with an 11 inch capacity lets you drill to the center of a 22 inch board or circle .
the head is mounted on a horizontal arm that swivels on the supporting column to position the drill bit instead of the work .
the drill press should be leveled and , depending on whether it is a bench or floor model , bolted securely to a sturdy bench or stand or screwed to the floor with lag or expansion screws .
a coat of paste wax or a rubdown with a piece of wax paper will protect the polished surface of the table ; ;
presses not fitted with sealed spindle bearings will need a drop of oil now and then in the lubrication holes in the quill .
be careful to keep the drive belt free of oil and grease .
keep the belt just tight enough so the pulleys won't slip when pulled by hand ; ;
most drill presses have a quill return spring that raises the spindle automatically when the feed lever is released and holds the quill in the raised position .
turning the housing clockwise will reduce tension , counter-clockwise will increase it .
.
otherwise , you'll have to spend a few minutes to either attach a suitable spring clip somewhere on the press head or fit the key to a length of light chain and fasten to the bottom of the motor mount so that the key is out of the way when not in use .
drill speeds are important if you want a good job .
on most drill presses , it is impossible to get the exact speed , but you can come close by adjusting the drive belt on the step-cone pulleys .
see the table on page 34 for exact recommended speeds .
feed pressure is also of major importance .
too light a feed , particularly with metal or other hard material , causes overheating of the tool and burning of the cutting edge .
common drilling tools
the most common are the twist drill , the solid center shaft with interchangeable cutting blades , the double spur bit , and the power wood bit .
the adjustable fly cutter is very useful for cutting large diameter holes and can be used to cut exact-size discs by reversing the cutter blade .
fly cutters can fool you into putting your hand too close to the tool , so if you want to avoid nicked fingers , keep your hands well out of the way .
when drilling all the way through a workpiece , always place a piece of scrap wood underneath .
another method of assuring a clean hole is to first drill a small pilot hole all the way through , then drill half way with the dimensional bit , turn the piece over , and finish from the other side .
in this case , drilling a small pilot hole or clamping the work will do much to improve accuracy .
the depth gauge rod can now be set , and any number of holes bored to exact and identical depth .
for their length , their types of construction , their picturesque settings , and their literary associations , they should be known and remembered .
the first bridge known to have been covered wholly or in part , -- and perhaps the most interesting one , connected newbury ( now newburyport ) with salisbury point .
this document began : `` no. 1 newbury port , may 30th , 1791
`` we , the subscribers , do agree , that as soon as a convenient number of persons have subscribed to this , or a similar writing , we will present a petition to the hon'ble general court of the commonwealth of massachusetts , praying for an act incorporating into a body politic the subscribers to such writing with liberty to build such a bridge , and a right to demand a toll equal to that received at malden bridge , and on like terms , and if such an act shall be obtained , then we severally agree each with the others , that we will hold in the said bridge the several shares set against our respective names , the whole into two hundred shares being divided , and that we will pay such sums of money at such times and in such manners , as by the said proposed corporation , shall be directed and required '' .
a month later the general court served notice to the town of newbury that the bridge was to be built .
on november 26 of that year the bridge was completed and opened .
this two-part bridge is best described by rev. timothy dwight , president of yale college , in his `` travels in new-england and new-york '' , published in new haven in 1821 .
`` it consists of two divisions , separated by an island at a small distance from the southern shore .
whose chord is one hundred and sixty feet , and whose vortex is forty feet ( it was actually 37 feet ) above the high-water mark .
the whole length of essex bridge is one thousand and thirty feet and its breadth thirty-four .
as mr. palmer was educated to house-building only , and had never seen a structure of this nature ; ;
it is hardly necessary to remind students of covered bridges that timothy palmer was born in 1751 in nearby rowley ; ;
and was there apprenticed to a builder and architect , moody spofford .
the essex merrimack bridge when first built was not covered .
richard s. allen is the authority for the statement that the northern section was probably roofed by 1810 .
a brief description accompanying the picture says that the bridge contained more than 6000 tons of timber .
between the north shore of deer island and the salisbury side there was an arch of 113 feet and a series of piers with a draw forty feet long .
it is said that the eccentric timothy dexter , who was one of the first share-holders , stood on the table and made a speech worthy of the occasion .
the reporter must have written this with tongue in cheek , because dexter's oration could hardly be understood ; ;
the north portion of the essex bridge was well worth the cost of construction , although it proved to be twice what was estimated in the beginning .
the southern half , however , on account of its underbracing , was considered by boat owners a menace to navigation .
this was built by john templeman from plans submitted by james finley of fayette county , pennsylvania .
an advertisement in the `` newburyport herald '' , december 21 , 1810 , shows palmer in a new light as an expert on chain bridges .
`` .
`` mr. palmer will attend to any applications relating to bridges and if desired will view the proposed site , and lay out and superintend the work , or recommend a suitable person to execute it .
`` approved , timothy palmer ''
this chain bridge proved less durable than the wooden arch on the salisbury end .
the horse and men were saved , but the oxen drowned .
this second chain bridge was 570 feet long , had two thirty-foot towers and a draw , and a double roadway .
sturdy and strong after more than a century of continuous use , the old covered , wooden bridge that spans the tygartis valley river at philippi will have a distinctive part in the week-long observance of the first land battle of the civil war at its home site , may 28th to june 3rd .
he was closely followed by the ohio and indiana troops -- thus the old bridge has another distinction ; ;
the bridge has survived the natural hazards of the elements , war , fire , and floods , as well as injuries incident to heavy traffic , for more than a hundred years .
it still stands as a monument to the engineering skills of the last century and still serves in the gasoline age to carry heavy traffic on u.s. route 250 -- the old beverly and fairmont turnpike .
this covered , wooden bridge is so closely identified with the first action in the early morning of june 3 , 1861 , and with subsequent troop movements of both armies in the philippi area that it has become a part and parcel of the war story .
completed and opened for traffic in 1852 , the bridge was designed and built by lemuel chenoweth and his brother , eli , of beverly .
the philippi bridge , however , was the chenoweth master piece , with its 139-foot , dual lane , span -- and it stands today as a monument to its builders .
during the war it was in constant use by the wagon trains transporting supplies from the railhead at grafton to the troops operating in the interior .
but what the elements could not do was seriously threatened when brigadier general william e. ( grumble ) jones reached philippi while on the famous jones-imboden raid in may , 1863 .
reverend joshual corder , a baptist minister , gathered a few citizens of southern sympathies , to call on jones and plead with him to spare the structure ; ;
jones relented , he did not order his men to apply the torch -- the drove of livestock was driven up the valley , via beverly , and across the mountains to feed and serve the confederate army , while jones and his raiders turned toward buckhannon to join forces with imboden .
on the second occasion it took prayers as well as reason to dissuade the soldiers from their purpose .
it is a good eight years now since each of us acquired a swimming pool -- eight enlightening , vigorous , rigorous , not wholly unrewarding years .
we have had sound grounding in the principles of the mailed-fist-in-velvet-glove school of diplomacy .
true , our problems have lessened a bit as more and more of our neighbors have built their own pools , thereby diluting our spectacular attractions .
so our innate generosity of spirit prompts us to share our trials , errors and solutions with any who are taking the pool plunge for the first time -- in the pious hope that some may profit from our experience .
position may not be everything , but in the case of a pool it can certainly contribute difficulties , social and/or physical .
one of us has a pool set in a wooded area very near the house .
if you are dreaming of a blue , shimmering pool right outside your living room windows , close your eyes firmly and fill in the picture with lots and lots of children , damp towels , squashed tubes of suntan oil and semi-inflated plastic toys .
you can also see that the greater the proximity of the pool to your main living quarters , the greater the chance for violation of family privacy , annoying noise and the let's-make-your-house-our-club attitude .
another dilemma : as picturesque as a sylvan pond in the forest may be , trees offer a leaf and root hazard to the well-being of a pool .
as in choosing a wife , it is only sensible to consider also how appealing a pool is likely to be in bad weather as well as in good .
it may be a big hole in the ground filled with salt hay , or an ice floe studded with logs .
( we do , however , recommend those patented covers to prevent both people and junk -- flora and fauna generally -- from accidentally wintering in the pool .
probably no location for a pool is perfect on all counts .
but if space and money are no problem and small children are not on hand every day , it is certainly more restful to have your pool and entertainment area removed from the immediate environs of the house .
the placement of your pool , however , will not of itself solve the two major problems of pool owning -- those that involve your social life and those pertaining to safety .
eight years ago while we were going through the mud-sweat-and-tears construction period , we were each solaced by the vision of early morning dips and evening home-comings to a cool family collected around the pool with a buffet table laid out nearby for the lord and master's delectation .
we seemed to be witnessing the population explosion right in our own backyards .
had we taken a lien on a state park ? ?
we had merely been discovered by the pool sharks .
from proud pool-owners to perpetual hosts and handymen was a short step -- no more than the change from city clothes to trunks .
our book of etiquette
so rules we made , in unabashed collusion .
first and foremost : no one -- no , not anyone -- in the family is allowed to issue blanket invitations to his or her own circle .
their friends and ours are welcome to share the pool , but on our terms and at our times .
no ringers , either -- even if they are trailing legitimate invitees .
no young children may come without adults except for a specific , organized , chaperoned party .
a gaggle of gabbling mothers , backs to the pool , is no safeguard .
( sanity , solvency and relations with our wine merchant took a beating that first summer as we inadvertently became the neighborhood free-drink stop .
we designated one day a week as the time when neighborhood teen-agers might swim at definite hours .
we also worked out logistics for sunday afternoon swimmers who arrive two hours early with their weekend guests while we are still enjoying an alfresco lunch en famille .
all dressing ( undressing to be more exact ) must be done in our small bath house or at the swimmers' homes .
) we do , however , provide a limited number of extra suits , mainly for children , and we stock extra towels and a few inexpensive bathing conveniences .
preserving life and limb
in many localities , now , the law requires all pools to be fenced , usually to a minimum height of 5 feet .
we allow no underwater endurance contests , either , or inexpert versions of water polo .
and divers must be enjoined to look before they leap , either on top of someone else or onto a pool edge .
all bottles must be kept a safe distance away from the pool and drinking glasses are banned in favor of plastic or metal cups .
you should be prepared to cope with any pitfall such as plunges into empty pools or shallow ends and all manner of winter as well as summer lawsuits .
they are the result of a constant and careful contest with the elements .
of course , if your pool is close to the house , your wife can always add it to her housekeeping chores ( you hope ) .
even so , every pool owner , in case of emergency , should have some idea of what makes things work .
preserving the pool
you need more chlorine .
you need algaecide .
you should see to it that the trap , the dirt-catcher in front of the filter , is always clean .
you should firmly insist that no bobby pins or hair pins be worn in the water .
you can hope against hope that come spring cleaning , your fair-weather friends will lend a hand at scrubbing and furbishing .
many hours of spring cleaning will be saved , however , if you remove the main drain grate when you close the pool season in the fall .
much of the dirt and leaf stain is easily removed when damp , but requires dynamite if allowed to dry .
of course , when your 6-inch torrent of water is released , it may cause a lot of comment as it passes through or by neighboring properties .
if your pool is located on or near sloping ground , it may have natural drainage which is certainly more desirable than to be faced with the annual expense and labor of first pumping out the water and then scooping out all the debris .
once on the water , these little visitors seldom leave , and this adds to your filtering and vacuuming problems as well as providing a slapping good time for all those present .
our experience has taught us that it pays to buy the best equipment possible , from pipes to brushes .
never let anyone not in the know take a turn at the valves -- even if the little boys do want to play space ship .
draw a line across the country at the latitude of lower pennsylvania .
fortunately , it is the fha which has arrived at this conclusion , for it means that cooling equipment of all kinds may now be included in a mortgage , and thus acquired with a minimum of financial stress .
new simplified packaged units , recently devised prefabricated glass-fiber ducts , and improved add-on techniques make it possible to acquire a system for an 1800-square-foot house for as little as $600 to $900 .
you can install it yourself -- this is a central system that will cool every part of your house .
no less an authority than the fha concurs that the savings air conditioning makes possible more than offset its operating costs .
home air conditioning has come a long way from the early days of overcooled theaters and the thermal shock they inflicted .
we know , too , that health is never harmed by summer cooling .
the filtered air benefits allergies , asthma , sinus , hay fever .
heart conditions and high blood pressure escape the stresses brought on by oppressive heat .
the cleaner air means less time spent pushing a vacuum , fewer trips to the dry cleaners , lighter loads for the washing machine .
clothes hold their shape better , and mildew and rust become almost forgotten words .
when you're less fatigued , things just naturally look brighter .
you'll sleep longer and better , too , awake refreshed and free of hot weather nerves .
best of all , central air conditioning is something you can afford .
that brings its per-year cost down mighty low .
no matter what style your home is , ranch , two-story , colonial or contemporary , central air conditioning is easily installed .
it can go in out-of-the-way waste space .
if that's done , the house can be designed and oriented for best operation , and this can mean savings both in the size of equipment and in the cost of the house itself .
manufacturers have designed equipment for just such circumstances , and your savings over starting from scratch will be substantial .
this costs less than having a completely separate cooling system , for your regular heating ductwork , filters and furnace blower do double duty for cooling .
the units can be installed in basement , attic , crawlspace , or in a closet located in the living area .
from the coil small copper pipes connect to a weatherproof refrigeration section set in the yard , garage , carport , or basement .
be sure ducts that require insulation get it when they are installed .
be sure your ducts and blower are big enough to handle cooling .
be sure you get a perimeter heating system , and diffusers that will work as well for cooling as they do for heating .
for cooling , chilled water is circulated instead of hot water .
these systems are more expensive than year-'round forced air systems .
separate systems .
the simplest kind of separate system uses a single , self-contained unit .
in a long , rambling ranch , two such units can be installed , one serving the living area , the other the sleeping zone .
in each case , having separate systems for living and sleeping areas has the advantage of permitting individual zone control .
one of the more remarkable of the new cooling systems is one that can be switched to heating .
a relatively simple switching arrangement reverses the cycle so that the machine literally runs backward , and the heat is extracted from outdoor air and turned indoors .
now , the machine has been improved to a point where it is generally more economical than oil heat at temperatures down to 15 degrees .
consider it as a standby setup , at negligible cost , for those emergencies when the furnace quits , a blizzard holds up fuel delivery , or for cool summer mornings or evenings when you don't want to start up your whole heating plant .
how large a cooling unit you need , and the method of its installation , depends on a variety of factors .
families with children usually don't want the house quite so cool .
the body is a heat machine , and 20 to 25 guests can easily double your cooling load .
a btu is a unit of heat , and the btu rating of a conditioner refers to how much heat your machine can pump out of your house in an hour .
this is if outdoor temperatures have a high average of 95 degrees .
coolers are also rated by tons .
by accepted definition , a 1-ton conditioner will provide 12,000 btu of cooling in one hour .
it is generally an inaccurate method of rating , for the horsepower is that of the compressor motor , and many other components beside it determine how much cooling you'll get .
the safest procedure is to let your builder estimate the size of the unit you need , rather than trying to do this yourself .
better to have your equipment slightly undersized than too big .
reducing humidity is often as important as cooling .
before it cycles on again , humidity can build up and make you uncomfortable even though the temperature is still low .
money-saving tips .
a well-designed , 1200-square-foot house can be comfortably cooled and heated for as little as $128 a year , or $11 a month .
keep the direct sun from reaching the house and you've won the first battle .
if the house you plan to buy or build won't have big overhangs , you can still do a fair job of keeping the sun off walls and windows with properly designed trellises , fences and awnings .
drawn blinds and draperies do some good , but not nearly as much as shading devices on the outside of the house .
the way a house is set on its lot can therefore influence how much cooling you're going to need .
you can use heat-absorbing glass to stop the sun , double glass and insulated glass to combat condensation .
they're easier to shade there .
you'll even gain by putting your water heater outside the conditioned space , and using an electric range instead of a gas one .
insulate , weatherstrip , double-glaze to the maximum .
they stand for 6 inches of mineral wool insulation in the ceiling , 4 inches in the side walls , 2 inches in the floors .
a light-colored roof will reduce sun heat by 50 per cent .
you'll foil them in droves , along with their pal humidity , by having and using a kitchen range exhaust fan , a bathroom ventilator for when you shower , and an outside vent for the clothes drier .
it's no use pretending that all conditioners are quiet , but the noise they produce can be kept to a minimum .
avoid attic placement directly above a bedroom .
this is particularly true in site selection .
you must have a list of requirements on where , how many , and what type sites are needed .
begin the examination of a site with a good map and aerial photos if possible .
the new editions of topographic maps being made by the federal government are excellent for orienting yourself to the natural features of the site .
in recent years many counties and the u. s. forest service have taken aerial photos which show features in detail and are very good for planning use .
inspect the site in the field during the time of the year when the area will be most heavily used for recreation .
it is usually helpful to make a sketch map in the field , showing the size and location of the features of interest and to take photographs at the site .
for site planning work , it is best to have a qualified and experienced park planner to carry through the study .
county judges , commissioners , engineers , assessors , and others who have lived in the area for a long time may have valuable knowledge regarding the site or opinions to offer from their varied professional experiences .
how much study is required ? ?
it is too easy for the inexperienced person to make a quick judgment of a few values of the area and base a decision on these alone .
a site may be a rundown slum or a desolate piece of desert in appearance today but have excellent potentials for the future with a little development or water .
in looking for the best sites available that meet the requirements , you need information to compare the site with others .
what are the existing recreation features ? ?
how useful will it be to the public ? ?
check the quantity and quality of all of the recreation interests already existing at the site .
quality is vitally important .
some recreation features , such as scenic values and water interest , also have greater overall value than other interests .
it may be distant views of a valley or the mountains or natural features such as a small lake , colorful rock formations , or unusual trees .
an area on the coast may have relaxing views of the surf rolling in on a beach .
note extent of these interests and how available they will be for the public to enjoy .
most park planners look to water frontage for basic park areas .
a body of water is usually the center of interest at parks which attract the greatest picnic and camping use .
the amount of water frontage , the quantity and quality of the water , and the recreation afforded by it are important .
the quantity of water flow may be critical ; ;
if the site is on a reservoir , the level of the water at various seasons as it affects recreation should be studied .
a stream which has all of its watershed within a national forest or other lands under good conservation practices is less likely to be affected by pollution than one passing through unrestricted logging or past an industrial area .
other natural features which can be of high interest are the forests , canyons , mountains , deserts , seacoast , beaches , sand dunes , waterfalls , springs , etcetera with which the area is blessed .
although the site may not contain the features themselves , there are often opportunities to include them as additional interest to the site .
a group of native trees or plants which are outstanding in a particular county can be featured at the site .
fishing interest calls for a check of the species found , quantity and size , the season they are available , and the stocking program of the fish commission .
the site may be on one of the major flyways of migratory birds or have its own resident bird life .
each area has its own historical interests with which much can be done .
the historical sign tells its story , but nothing gets interest across as well as some of the original historical items or places themselves which still have the character of the period covered .
those which tell a story of the earth's formation in each area can add geological interest to the recreation sites .
some areas may provide archeological values such as ancient indian village sites or hunting areas , caves , artifacts , etcetera .
look at the physical features of the land to determine how desirable it is for use , what can be done to correct the faults , and what it will cost to make the area meet your needs in comparison to other sites .
size and shape
an area may be too small for the needs of the project .
acreage in excess of the minimum is good practice as recreation areas are never too large for the future and it is often more economical to operate one large area than several small ones .
a large picnic area or camping development is most efficient in shape as a square or rectangle several hundred feet in width in preference to a long narrow area less than one hundred feet wide .
however , a narrow strip may be very practical for small developments , or to provide additional stream frontage for a fisherman's trail , or include scenic strips within the park unit .
-- the values of the site may be affected by the appearance of the adjoining lands , ownership and use of the land , and the utilities available there .
the utilities available nearby may provide a savings in the cost of extending electricity or water to the site .
-- topography is very important .
nearly level areas are required for parking areas , beaches , camp areas , ballfields , etcetera .
water
the quantity and quality of water sources is often a big factor in site selection .
figure the cost of providing water to the use areas .
-- the existing plant growth calls for thorough checking .
an area may have been partially logged and requires removal of stumps or clean-up .
the extent and location of open areas is noted .
-- how much will wind , rain , sun , and temperature affect the use ? ?
the direction , velocity , and season of these winds should be noted as to just how they will affect the recreation use and your maintenance and operation of the area .
sometimes , you have a choice of exposure for sites where the topography or trees of the area will provide afternoon shade , morning sun , or whatever may be most desirable for the use intended .
-- some areas may already have been improved and contain buildings , roads , utilities , cleared land , etcetera which may raise the cost of the site .
and with sober purpose , because the development of prokofieff personifies , in many ways , the course of music in the union of soviet socialist republics .
these qualities endeared him to both the musicians and the social-economic haute monde which supported the concert world of the post-world war 1 , era .
prokofieff's classical symphony was hailed as an ingenious work from a naturally gifted and well-trained musician still in his twenties .
to the neo-classicists , it was a challenge to the pre-war world .
a tongue-in-cheek stylization of 18th-century ideas ; ;
a brilliant piece de resistance ? ?
i heard the classical symphony for the first time when koussevitzky conducted it in paris in 1927 .
some musicians were enthusiastic , some skeptical .
i remember ernest bloch in the foyer , shouting in his high-pitched voice : `` it may be a tour de force , mais mon dieu , can anyone take this music seriously '' ? ?
certainly , america took prokofieff and his classical symphony seriously , and with a good deal of pleasure .
chicago was also a welcome host : there , in 1921 , prokofieff conducted the world premiere of the love for three oranges , and played the first performance of his third piano concerto .
we attended the premieres of his concertos , symphonies , and suites ; ;
we bought his records and played them in our schools and universities .
nevertheless , prokofieff was much influenced by paris during the twenties : the paris which was the artistic center of the western world -- the social paris to which russian aristocracy migrated -- the chic paris which attracted the tourist dollars of rich america -- the avant-garde paris of diaghileff , stravinsky , koussevitzky , cocteau , picasso -- the laissez-faire paris of dadaism and ultramodern art -- the paris sympathique which took young composers to her bosom with such quick and easy enthusiasms .
in the spacious hunting grounds of `` uncle sam '' ; ;
meanwhile , three great terrible forces were coagulating and crystallizing .
the world exploded when fascism challenged all concepts of peace and liberty , and the outraged , freedom-loving peoples of the capitalist and socialist worlds combined forces to stamp fascist tyranny into cringing submission .
a world beset with new boundaries , new treaties and governments , new goals and methods , and the age-old fears of aggression and subjugation -- hunger and exposure .
here , this happy , roving son of good fortune proved that he could accept the disciplines of a new social-economic order fighting for its very existence and ideals in a truculent world .
it is at this point in his life that the mature prokofieff emerges .
but no : prokofieff grew .
by 1937 he had clarified his intentions to serve his people : `` i have striven for clarity and melodious idiom , but at the same time i have by no means attempted to restrict myself to the accepted methods of harmony and melody .
how right he was ; ;
and with what resource did prokofieff back up his credo of words -- with torrents of powerful music .
or the love for three oranges ( gay as it is ) with the wonderful , imaginative , colorful , and subtle tenderness of the magnificent ballet , the stone flower .
of course , these works are not comparable , even though the same brain conceived them .
the later works were conceived to affirm a way of life for fellow citizens .
prokofieff never forsakes his medium for the cause of experimentation per se .
his sense for rhythmic variety and timing is impeccable .
his counterpoint is pertinent , skillful , and rarely thick .
that prokofieff's harmonies and forms sometimes seem professionally routine to our ears , may or may not indicate that he was less of an `` original '' than we prefer to believe .
prokofieff might well emerge as a cultural hero , who , by the force of his creative life , helped preserve the main stream of tradition , to which the surviving idioms of current experimentalism may be eventually added and integrated .
yet was never caught up in it -- never a slave to its academic dialectics .
so prokofieff was able to cultivate his musical talents and harvest a rich reward from them .
his fellow-countryman , igor stravinsky , certainly did not .
i think the answer is to be found in prokofieff's own words : `` the clarity must be new , not old '' .
when stravinsky shaped his purpose to the shifting scenes of many cultures , many salons , many dialectics , many personalities , he tried to refashion himself into a stylist of many styles , determined by many disparate cultures .
but stravinsky was swayed by the attitudes of whatever culture he was reflecting .
because of the authentic homogeneity of his early nationalistic materials , and his flair for orchestrations -- his brilliant petruchka , his savage sacre du printemps , his incisive les noces -- the world kept hoping that he could recapture the historical direction for which his native talents were predisposed .
his various aesthetic postulates remain as landmarks of a house divided against itself : supra-expressionism , neo-paganism , neo-classicism , neo-romanticism , neo-jazz , neo-ecclesiasticism , neo-popularism , and most recently , post-serialism -- all competing with each other within one composer ! !
meager and shabby by-products linger to haunt our memories of a once mighty protagonist ; ;
a poor attempt to write an idiomatic jazz concerto ; ;
his hopes that the tunes from his old music might be used for popular american commercial songs ! !
how differently prokofieff's life unfolded .
in the process , his native endowments were stretched , strengthened and disciplined to serve their human purpose .
of course , it must not be forgotten that in achieving this historical feat , prokofieff had the vast resources of his people behind him ; ;
symphony orchestras , opera and ballet companies ; ;
soloists ; ;
broadcastings ; ;
large and eager audiences .
thus in prokofieff the union of soviet socialist republics produced one of the great composers of the twentieth century .
that he mastered every aspect of his medium according to his own great talents and contemporary judgments , is a good and solid symbol of his people under the tremendous pressures of proclaiming and practising the rigors of a new culture ; ;
april 10 marked a memorable date in new york's musical history -- indeed in the musical history of the entire eastern united states .
roy mason is essentially a landscape painter whose style and direction has a kinship with the english watercolorists of the early nineteenth century , especially the beautifully patterned art of john sell cotman .
as a boy roy mason began the long process of extracting the goodness of the out-of-doors , its tang of weather , its change of seasons , its variable moods .
out of this background of hunting and fishing , it was only natural that roy first painted subjects he knew best : hunters in the field , fishermen in the stream , ducks and geese on the wing -- almost always against a vast backdrop of weather landscape .
mason had to earn the privilege of devoting himself exclusively to painting .
but it did teach roy the basic techniques of commercial art , and later , for twelve years , he and his sister nina conducted an advertising art studio in philadelphia .
after more years of concentrated effort , roy and his brother max finally established a thriving family business at the old stand .
gradually he withdrew from the shop altogether , and for the past thirty years , he has worked independently as a painter , except for his continued hunting and fishing expeditions .
except for a rich friendship with the painter , chauncey ryder who gave him the only professional instruction he ever had -- and this was limited to a few lessons , though the two artists often went on painting trips together -- roy developed his art by himself .
he worked in oil for years before beginning his work in watercolor , and his first public recognition and early honors , including his election to the academy , were for his essays in the heavier medium .
it has been my privilege to paint with roy mason on numerous occasions , mostly in the vicinity of batavia .
what i have observed time and time again is a process of integration , integration that begins as abstract design and gradually takes on recognizable form ; ;
and that over-all , amazing control of large washes which is the mason stylemark .
inspiring -- yes ; ;
duplicable -- no ! !
`` of late years , i find that i like best to work out-of-doors .
if a human figure or wild life are to be part of the projected final picture , i try to place them in the initial sketch .
`` i am thoroughly convinced that most watercolors suffer because the artist expects nature will do his composing for him ; ;
just because a tree or other object appears in a certain spot is absolutely no reason to place it in the same position in the painting , unless the position serves the design of the whole composition .
out of long experience i have found that incidental figures and other objects like trees , logs , and bushes can be traced from the original sketch and moved about in the major areas on the final sheet until they occupy the right position , which i call clicking .
`` if i have seemed to emphasize the structure of the composition , i mean to project equal concern for color .
when this occurs , i make the change on the sketch or on the final watercolor -- if i have been working on a full sheet in the field .
when this linear draft is completed , i dust it down to a faint image .
however , first i thoughtfully study my sketch for improvement of color and design along the lines i have described .
the longer i work , the more i am sure that for me , at least , a workmanlike method is important .
`` as for materials , i use the best available .
in my studio i work at a tilt-top table , but leave the paper unfixed so that i can move it freely to control the washes .
after selecting a sheet and inspecting it for flaws ( even the best sometimes has foreign ' nubbins ' on its surface ) , i sponge it thoroughly on both sides with clean , cold water .
`` in addition to the usual tools , i make constant use of cleansing tissue , not only to wipe my brushes , but to mop up certain areas , to soften edges , and to open up lights in dark washes .
i also use a small electric hand-blower to dry large washes in the studio .
the red sables are 8 ; ;
and a very large , flat wash brush .
`` my usual palette consists of top-quality colors : alizarin crimson , orange , raw sienna , raw umber , burnt sienna , sepia , cerulean blue , cobalt blue , french ultramarine blue , winsor green , hooker's green 2 , cadmium yellow pale , yellow ochre , payne's gray , charcoal gray , davy's gray , and ivory black '' .
true , a mason watercolor is unmistakably a synthesis of nature rather than a detailed inventory .
long observation has taught mason that most landscape can be reduced to three essential planes : a foreground in sharp focus -- either a light area with dark accents or a dark one with lights ; ;
and a background , usually a silhouetted form foiled against the sky .
when painting , mason's physical eyes are half-closed , while his mind's eye is wide open , and this circumstance accounts in part for the impression he wishes to convey .
rather his pictures invite the observer to draw on his memory , his imagination , his nostalgia .
his pictures generalize , though they are inspired by a particular locale ; ;
by dealing with common landscape in an uncommon way , roy mason has found a particular niche in american landscape art .
the artist was born in gilbert mills , new york , in 1886 , and until two years ago when he and his wife moved to california , he lived in western new york , in batavia .
and how very often a water plane is featured in his landscapes , and how appropriate that he should appear in american artist again , in his natal month of march ! !
two ranger fund purchase awards ; ;
two american watercolor society prizes ; ;
and others in buffalo , new york , chautauqua , new haven , rochester , rockport , and most recently , the $300 prize for a watercolor at the laguna beach art association ,
other memberships include the american watercolor society , philadelphia water color club , allied artists of america , audubon artists , baltimore watercolor society .
they were better trained , better looking , better built , better disciplined and something else -- they were better dancers .
the russians are all trained as dancers before they start to study gymnastics .
and is the sport really important ? ?
but if it is important , what can we do to improve ourselves ? ?
it is made up of tumbling , which might be said to start with a somersault , run through such stunts as headstands , handstands , cartwheels , backbends , and culminate in nearly impossible combinations of aerial flips and twists and apparatus work .
the parallel bars , horse , buck , springboard , horizontal bar , rings , and mats formerly in the school gyms were replaced by baseball , volleyball , basketball and football .
the gymnast must develop strength , flexibility , coordination , timing , rhythm , courage , discipline , persistence and the desire for perfection .
the addition of endurance training later , when the body is mature enough to benefit from it without danger of injury , provides that final quality that makes the top athlete , soldier or citizen .
( an enterprising teacher or parent could start training a healthy child at the age of seven days .
) in most sports , as in most walks of life , the angels are on the side of those who begin young , and the russian competitor of 16 has at least thirteen years of training behind him .
if a nation wished to get a head start in physical fitness over all other nations , it would start its kindergarten students on a program of gymnastics the day they entered and thus eliminate a large number of the problems that plague american schools .
oddly enough , it is proven that there would be less reading difficulty .
russia knows this , and that is why there were over 800,000 competing for places as candidates for the olympic gymnastic team .
we could scarcely find eighty in our great land of over 180 million people .
a great deal .
well-stretched , trained in posture and coordinated movement , and wedded to rhythm , they presented the audiences in rome with one of the most beautiful sights ever seen at any olympic contest .
they saw completely masculine and obviously virile men performing with incredible grace .
president kennedy has asked that we become a physically fit nation .
to be fit , one has to start early with young children , and today the only person who really reaches such children is the teacher of dance .
school teachers , all too unprepared for the job they must do , will need demonstrators .
they should know simple exercises that could prepare less fortunate children for the sports we will demand be taught .
very little in today's living provides the strength we need and nothing provides the flexibility .
they often fail , however , to develop real abdominal , back , chest , shoulder and arm strength .
even the boys will not be outstanding in these areas .
the only area in which american boys hold their own is the baseball throw .
for arm and shoulder strength a chinning bar is recommended .
those children who can chin themselves should be told to do one chin-up each time they pass under it .
when they can take ten seconds to accomplish the descent , they will have the strength to chin-up .
the horse kick
start on hands and feet .
after this has become easy , use slower and slower rhythms , kicking higher and higher .
push-ups
start on the knees in a large circle .
push back up and repeat .
as strength improves start in a standing position with legs wide apart and upper body bent forward .
try to push back to the stand position from the stretched position without any intermediate pushes from the hands .
let the body down slowly , taking at least five seconds for the letting down .
handstands
of course those who have developed more will find them easier .
at first each child should do a kick-up by himself so that the teacher can determine those ready to work alone , and those who need help .
the left will follow at once .
return to the standing position .
this will prevent flat falls and toe injuries .
eventually the class will be able to kick up high enough so that the teacher can catch the leading leg .
be sure that the landing foot is brought close to the hands and that only one foot lands at a time .
the backbend is of extreme importance to any form of free gymnastics , and , as with all acrobatics , the sooner begun the better the results .
place flat palms on either side of the head a few inches away from the ears , fingers pointing toward the shoulders .
be sure the head drops backward so that the child looks at the floor rather than toward the ceiling .
later this can be combined with the handstand to provide a walkover .
to further increase back flexibility , work on the back circle .
place the hands in front of the chest .
straighten the arms slowly , this arches the back .
improvement can be measured by the lessening distance between toes and head .
the last essential to the beginner's gymnastic program is the somersault , or forward roll .
some are actually incapable of rolling forward and are completely confused when not sitting or standing upright .
after it has been seen , have the child start on a mat on hands and knees ( a thin , inexpensive mat is quite sufficient for anything that does not require falling ) .
he then pushes his seat into the air and the teacher guides it over .
if , however , the child is weak , overweight , or afraid , more help will be needed .
then no matter what happens , the child's performance will be controlled .
these are beginnings , but correctly learned they prepare for satisfying and exciting stunts that can be performed by a strong , flexible body ( we are not talking of eccentric extremes ) .
it is very important for parents to understand that early training is imperative .
every taxpayer is well aware of the vast size of our annual defense budget and most of our readers also realize that a large portion of these expenditures go for military electronics .
the host of novel applications of electronics to medical problems is far more thrilling because of their implication in matters concerning our health and vitality .
the author has recently studied the field of medical electronics and has been convinced that , in this area alone , the application of electronic equipment has enormous possibilities .
we use the term `` bio-medicine '' because of the close interrelation between biology and medical research .
recently many doctors have installed ultrasonic vibration machines for deep massage of bruises , contusions , and simple bursitis .
in this article we will concentrate on the advances in the application of electronics in bio-medical research laboratories because this is where tomorrow's commonplace equipment originates .
ultraviolet microscopy
this stain often disrupts the normal cell activity or else colors only the outside .
fig. 1 is a simplified block diagram of the ultraviolet microscopy system developed at the medical electronics center of rockefeller institute .
three different wavelengths of ultraviolet radiation are selected by the variable filters placed in front of the three mercury xenon lights which serve as the ultraviolet sources .
the specimen is magnified by the microscope .
the microscope and orthicon are both selected to operate well into the ultraviolet spectrum , which means that all lenses must be quartz .
( note : because of light leakage from one ultraviolet source to another , the lights are switched by a commutator-like assembly rotated by a synchronous motor .
) this is the same system as was used in the field-sequential color-tv system which preceded the present simultaneous system .
the result is a color picture of the specimen where the primary colors correspond to the three different ultraviolet wavelengths .
different parts of these cells sometimes absorb or reflect different wavelengths so that it is often possible to see internal portions of cells in a different color .
at the present time the research team which pioneered this new technique is primarily interested in advancing and perfecting it .
the medical title of `` lobar ventilation in man '' by drs. c. j. martin and a. c. young , covers a brief paper which is one part of a much larger effort to apply electronics to the study of the respiratory process .
this unit , affectionately dubbed `` the monster '' , can be wheeled to any convenient location and provides a wealth of information about the patient's breathing .
usually the patient breathes into a mouthpiece while walking a treadmill , standing still , or in some other medically significant position .
heart-measuring techniques
for many of these measurements the chest must be opened , but the blood vessels and the heart itself remain undisturbed .
one simple method of measuring the expansion of the heart is to tie a thin rubber tube , filled with mercury , around the heart and record the change in resistance as the tube is stretched .
sonar can be used to measure the thickness of the heart by placing small crystal transducers at opposite sides of the heart or blood vessel and exciting one with some pulsed ultrasonic energy .
thus it takes about 16 msec. to traverse 25 mm. of tissue .
in addition to the heart and aorta , successful measurements of liver and spleen have also been made by this technique .
a still more sophisticated system has been devised for determining the effective power of the heart itself .
the latter measures the heat carried away by the bloodstream as an indication of the velocity of the blood flow .
this pressure measurement may be made at the same time that the ultrasonic dimensioning measurement is made .
outputs of the two systems are measured by a pulse-timing circuit and a resistance bridge , followed by a simple analogue computer which feeds a multichannel recorder .
radio-transmitter pills
this original capsule contained a battery and a transistor oscillator and was about 1 cm. in diameter .
a refinement of this technique has been described by drs. zworykin and farrar and mr. berkely of the medical electronics center of the rockefeller institute .
as shown in fig. 4 , an external antenna is placed over or around the patient and excited 3000 times a second with short 400-kc. bursts .
these frequencies are amplified and detected by the fm receiver after each burst of transmitted energy and , after the `` pill '' has been calibrated , precise internal pressure indications can be obtained .
applications to organs other than the gastrointestinal tract are planned for future experiments .
one of the most gratifying applications of an important technique of submarine detection is in the exploration of the human body .
various methods of pulsing , scanning , and displaying these sound waves are used to detect submarines , map ocean floors , and even communicate under water .
because the body contains so much liquid , transmission of ultrasonic signals proceeds fairly well in muscles and blood vessels .
based on this phenomenon , a number of investigators have used this method to `` look through '' human organs .
he can diagnose detachment of the retina where conventional methods indicate blindness due to glaucoma .
the transducer is coupled to the body through a water bath , not shown .
a typical `` sonogram '' of a human eye , together with a description of the anatomical parts , is shown in fig. 5 .
the transducer itself moves the beam in a sector scan , just like a radar antenna , while the entire transducer structure is moved over a 90-degree arc in front of the eye to `` look into '' all corners .
drs. howry and holmes at the university of colorado medical school have applied the same sonar technique to other areas of soft tissue and have obtained extremely good results .
as mentioned before , bone reflects the sound energy and in fig. 7 the portion of the spine shows as the black area in the center .
a cross-section of a normal lower human leg is shown in fig. 8 with the various parts labeled .
he was born in the small danish town of rudkoebing on the island of langeland in the south-central part of denmark on august 14 , 1777 .
the two older boys , hans and anders , his junior by a year , therefore went daily to the home of a warm and friendly wigmaker nearby for instruction in german ; ;
other brothers later joined them for instruction with oldenburg , the wigmaker , and also arithmetic was added to bible reading , german , and danish in the informal curriculum .
from the town surveyor , hans learned drawing and mathematics and , from a university student , some academic subjects .
whatever hans or anders learned separately they passed on to each other ; ;
at 12 , hans was sufficiently mature to help his father in the apothecary shop , which helped stimulate his interest in medicine and science .
in 1793 the brothers decided to enter the university of copenhagen ( founded in 1479 ) and the following spring found them at the university preparing to matriculate for the autumn session .
the brothers continued to help each other during their studies , sharing a joint purse , lodging together in the dormitory and dining together at the home of their aunt .
so impressive were those serious years of study at the university that hans later wrote , `` to be perfectly free , the young man must revel in the great kingdom of thought and imagination ; ;
i lived in this onward-driving contest where each day overcame a new difficulty , gained a new truth , or banished a previous error '' .
in this third year at the university , hans , in 1797 , was awarded the first important token of recognition , a gold medal for his essay on `` limits of poetry and prose '' .
he proposed a fresh theory of alkalis which later was accepted in chemical practices .
hans' student days were at a time when europe was in a new intellectual ferment following the revolutions in america and in france , germany and italy were rising from divisive nationalisms and a strong wave of intellectual awareness was sweeping the continent .
he was stirred by the announcement of volta's discovery of chemical electricity and he immediately applied the voltaic pile to experiments with acids and alkalis .
he also met count rumford ( born benjamin thompson in woburn , mass. ) who was then serving the elector of bavaria , and the physicist ritter ; ;
from gottingen ( 1801 ) where he stayed for 10 days , he wrote , `` the first question asked everywhere is about galvanism .
oersted joined ritter at jena and stayed with him for 3 weeks , continuing their correspondence after he left .
oersted remodeled ritter's notes into an essay in french which was submitted to the institut de france for its annual prize of 3,000 francs .
in may , 1803 , ritter , in another flight of fancy , wrote to oersted a letter that contained a remarkable prophecy .
thus , 1745 corresponded to the invention of the `` leiden '' jar by kleist , 1764 that of the electrophorus by wilcke , 1782 produced the condenser of volta , and 1801 the voltaic pile .
this we might well witness '' .
in 1803 oersted returned to copenhagen and applied for the university's chair in physics but was rejected because he was probably considered more a philosopher than a physicist .
in 1806 his ambition was realized and he became professor of physics at the copenhagen university , though not realizing full professorship ( ordinarius ) until 1817 .
he was , however , fortunate in his contact with prof. j. g. l. manthey ( 1769-1842 ) , teacher of chemistry , who , in addition to his academic chair , was also proprietor of the `` lion pharmacy '' in copenhagen where oersted assisted him .
in 1800 , manthey went abroad and oersted was appointed manager of the lion pharmacy .
in the following year , 1803 , oersted , simultaneously with davy , discovered that acids increased the strength of a voltaic battery more than did salts .
he assumed his academic career with the same intensity and thoroughness that had marked every step in his rise from boyhood .
his broad interest in literary , political , and philosophical movements opened many doors to him .
the years 1812 and 1813 saw him in germany and france again , but on this visit to berlin he did not seek out the philosophers as he had on his first journey .
his interest in finding a relationship between voltaic electricity and magnetism is here first indicated .
the great resemblance between electrical and magnetic attractions and repulsions and the similarity of their laws necessarily would bring about this comparison .
but the phenomena observed had such a degree of analogy to those depending on electrical distribution that one could not find the slightest difference .
there , forces are more latent than in electricity , and less than in magnetism .
one could also add to these analogies that steel loses its magnetism by heat , which proves that steel becomes a better conductor through a rise in temperature , just as electrical bodies do .
by that , one feels that magnetic forces are as general as electrical forces .
his plan and intent were clearly charted .
in one debate he supported the freedom of judgment as opposed to dogma , in another he held that the practice of science was in fact an act of religious worship .
he devised a detonating fuse in which a short wire was caused to glow by an electric current .
it was with the assistance of one of the members of this expedition , lauritz esmarch , that oersted succeeded in producing light by creating an electric discharge in mercury vapor through which an electric current was made to flow .
esmarch was among those who witnessed oersted's first demonstration of his discovery .
the association between electric ( both electrostatic and voltaic ) forces and magnetic forces had been recognized by investigators for many decades .
in the late 1700's beccaria and van marum , among others , had magnetized iron by sending an electrostatic charge through it .
the resulting magnetic effect proved stronger than when the discharge was made lengthwise .
oersted's own earlier experiments were unimpressive , possibly because he had , like other experimenters , laid the conducting wire across the compass needle instead of parallel with it .
at this lecture oersted happened to place the conducting wire over and parallel to a magnetic needle .
the target chart quickly and briefly tells you which additives do what .
all comments concerning effectiveness and use of drugs have been carefully reviewed by a veterinary medical officer with aj .
the drug's chemical name is listed , since most states require feed processors to use this name instead of the trade name on the feed tag .
this indicates that this drug is being marketed under one trade name only or state regulatory organizations have approved its use on the feed tag .
drug's chemical name :
increases rate of gain and improves feed efficiency , aids in the prevention or treatment ( depending on level fed ) of the early stages of shipping fever , prevents or treats bacterial diarrhea , and aids in reducing incidence of bloat and liver abscesses .
how to feed : beef cattle ( finishing ration )
calves
as an aid in the prevention of bacterial diarrhea ( scours ) , feed 50 grams per ton of complete feed .
for prevention or treatment of bacterial scours , feed 0.1 to 5 milligrams per pound of body weight daily .
-- as an aid in reducing incidence and severity of bloat , provide 75 milligrams of oxytetracycline hydrochloride per animal daily .
to prevent or treat bacterial diarrhea , furnish 0.1 to 5 milligrams per pound of body weight daily .
for the best results , feed this level to cattle 3 to 5 days preceding shipment and/or 3 to 5 days following their arrival in your feed lot .
sheep
as an aid in the prevention of bacterial diarrhea ( scours ) , feed 50 grams per ton .
chlortetracycline ( aureomycin ) what it does :
milk production may be increased by the anti-infective properties of this drug .
-- not less than 70 milligrams of aureomycin per head daily to aid in the prevention of liver abscesses in feed-lot beef cattle .
feed at level of 70 milligrams per head per day .
for prevention of these diseases during periods of stress such as shipping , excessive handling , vaccination , extreme weather conditions : 350 milligrams per head per day for 30 days only .
to aid in the prevention of anaplasmosis , feed not less than 0.5 milligram per pound of body weight daily .
-- for calves , feed not less than 50 grams of aureomycin per ton complete feed as an aid in preventing bacterial diarrhea and foot rot .
sheep
to reduce vibrionic abortion in breeding sheep , feed 80 milligrams per head daily .
dynafac .
an aid in getting cattle and sheep on full feed , in improving feed conversion and growth , in reducing bloat and founder , and in controlling scours .
-- 0.2 gram dynafac per head daily ( 1 gram of premix per head daily ) for promoting growth , feed conversion , bloom , and full feed earlier .
-- dynafac in a complete ration or 0.3 to 0.4 gram per head per day ( 200 grams of premix per ton complete ration or equivalent .
aids in minimizing the occurrence of feed-lot bloat due to high consumption of concentrates .
-- 1.0 gram premix per head per day for promoting growth , feed conversion , and getting lambs on full feed earlier .
diethylstilbestrol .
increases rate of gain and improves feed efficiency .
-- 10 milligrams of diethylstilbestrol per head daily .
the drug is also incorporated in supplements .
the recommended 10-milligram daily intake level should be maintained .
sheep fattening rations
include supplement containing 0.4 to 2 milligrams per pound to provide 2 milligrams per head per day .
discontinue medication 48 hours before slaughter .
hydroxazine hydrochloride .
improves growth rate and feed efficiency of fattening beef animals .
at the rate of 2-1/2 milligrams per head per day .
iodinated casein .
drug elevates the metabolic rate of the cow .
how to feed :
caution :
drug's chemical name :
( these enzyme preparations appear on today's feed tags as fermentation extracts of bacillus subtilis , apergillus orzae , niger , and flavus .
improves utilization of low-moisture corn ( less than 14% ) .
greatest benefits have been associated with feeding low-moisture corn in beef-feeding programs .
drug's chemical name :
what it does :
how to feed :
follow manufacturer's recommendation carefully .
do not feed to dairy cows and do not feed within 60 days of slaughter .
methyl polysiloxanes .
aids in preventing foamy bloat .
for prevention of foamy bloat , feed at a rate of 0.5 to 2 milligrams per head per day in mineral or salt or feed .
drug's chemical name :
what it does :
also , aids in the control of horn flies by preventing them from hatching in the droppings .
treat cattle with 10 grams per 100 pounds body weight with a maximum of 70 grams per animal .
beef calves -- to 1.5 grams daily depending on weight of animal .
treat lambs over 50 pounds and adults with 24 grams per animal .
to include in feed , add phenothiazine to supply 0.5 to 1 gram per sheep daily .
continuous administration is not recommended for lactating cows .
drug's chemical name :
what it does :
how to feed :
drug's chemical name :
what it does :
how to feed :
for the treatment of ketosis feed 1/4 to 1/2 pound per day for 10 days .
sulfaquinoxaline .
helps control shipping dysentery and coccidiosis in lambs .
-- feed at level for 2 or 3 days .
dried rumen bacteria .
stimulates rumen activity .
incorporated in commercially prepared feed at proper levels .
calcium and sodium lactate .
prevents and treats acetonemia ( ketosis ) in dairy cows .
for prevention of ketosis , feed 1/4 pound per head daily for 6 weeks commencing at calving time .
then , feed preventive dose until 6 weeks after calving .
promazine hydrochloride .
a tranquilizer fed to cattle ( other than lactating dairy cows ) prior to their being subjected to stress conditions such as vaccinating , shipping , weaning calves , and excessive handling .
not less than milligram but not more than 1.25 milligrams of additive per pound of body weight .
additive should not be fed 72 hours before animals are slaughtered .
( 2 ) mechanized bunks -- they sit within the feed lot , are filled by a mechanical conveyor above feeding surface ; ;
feed is put in with an elevator .
the selection of materials depends on skills of available labor for installation , cost of materials available locally , and your own preference .
selecting bunks by economic comparison is usually an individual problem .
animals eat only from one side , so the fence-line bunk must be twice as long as the mechanical bunk .
because of their location , on the edge of the feed lot , fence-line bunks are not in the way of mechanical manure removal .
all-weather roads must be provided next to the feeding floor so access will be possible all year .
marketing in the new decade will be no picnic -- for the sixties will present possibly the most intense competitive activity that you have experienced in the last 20-25 yrs. .
companies of all types have made great advances in production capabilities and efficiencies -- in modern equipment and new processes , enlarged r & d facilities , faster new product development .
given this kind of business climate , what competitive marketing problems will your company face in the next 10 yrs. ? ?
1 .
greater price-consciousness .
there is every indication it will continue .
despite generally good levels of income , we see greater price pressures than ever before -- traveling back along the chain from consumer to distributor to manufacturer .
has the probable price situation in your field been forecast as a basis for future planning ? ?
have you actually checked out ( not just mentally tested ) different selling approaches designed to counter the price competition problem ? ?
average consumer is becoming more sophisticated regarding product and advertising claims , partly because of widespread criticism of such assertions .
have you examined this problem of increasing consumer sophistication from the standpoint of your own company ? ?
need for service is here to stay -- and the problem is going to be tougher to solve in the sixties .
first , most products tend to become more complex .
providing good customer service requires as thorough a marketing and general management planning job as the original selling of the product .
good service starts with product design and planning : many products seem to be designed for a production economy , not for a service one .
have you assessed the importance of service and given it proper attention ? ?
in spending his money today , the consumer is pulled in many directions .
your competition is now proportionately greater -- you are competing not only against manufacturers in the same field but also against a vast array of manufacturers of other appealing consumer products .
has your company thought through its strategy in this whole `` discretionary buying '' area ? ?
the trends have been in evidence for many years -- population shifts to the southwest and far west , and from city to suburbs .
have you considered the implications of continuing geographic shifts in terms of sales force allocation , strength of distributor organizations , and even plant location ? ?
we have already witnessed great changes through mergers and acquisitions in the food industry -- at both the manufacturing and retail ends .
the change may require different products , pricing , packaging , warehousing , salesmanship , advertising and executive attention -- practically every link in the marketing network may have to be adjusted .
2 .
more private label competition .
as mass dealer and distributor organizations grow in size , there is every reason to expect them to try to share in the manufacturer's as well as the distributor's profits -- which is , in effect , what the sale of private brands tends to do .
moreover , the larger and more aggressive mass distribution outlets and chain stores have insisted on high quality -- and the customer seems to have caught on .
if private brand competition hasn't been felt in your product field as yet , have you thought how you will cope with it if and when it does appear ? ?
display merchandising , backed by pre-selling through advertising and promotion , will continue to make strides in the sixties .
how can you cash in on this fast-growing type of outlet and still maintain relationships with older existing outlets which are still important ? ?
salesmanship is still necessary , but it's a different brand of salesmanship .
have you studied the caliber and sales approaches of your sales force in relation to requirements for effective marketing ? ?
higher costs of distribution generally .
no manufacturer has taken the initiative in pointing out the costs involved .
computers are being used to keep branch inventories at more workable levels .
there may be possible economies at any one of a number of links in your marketing and distribution chain .
in your sales force , will a smaller number of higher-priced , high-quality salesmen serve you best , or can you make out better with a larger number of lower-paid salesmen ? ?
in one company covering the country with a high-quality sales force of 10 men , the president personally phones each major account every 6 mos. .
distribution costs are almost bound to increase in the sixties -- and you will never know what you can do to control them unless you study each element and experiment with alternative ways of doing the job .
from the manufacturer's point of view , the increasing cost of advertising and promotion is a very real problem to be faced in the sixties .
how much fundamental thinking and research has your company done on its advertising program ? ?
have you evaluated the proper place of advertising and all phases of promotion in your total marketing program -- from the standpoint of effort , money , and effectiveness ? ?
practically all forecasts mention new and exciting products on the horizon .
if competition beats you to it , this exciting new product era can have real headaches in store .
as markets become larger and marketing more complex , the costs of an error become progressively larger .
are there regular communications from the field , or meetings of sales and marketing personnel with r & d people ? ?
are there individuals in your organization who can shepherd a new product through to commercialization ; ;
and translate the whole into profit and loss and balance sheet figures which management can act on with some assurance ? ?
3 .
shortage of skilled salesmen .
in the future , quantitative demand will be greater because of the expansion of the economy , and the qualitative need will be greater still .
nor has the training been enough in relation to the need .
have you estimated your sales manpower needs for the future ( both quantitatively and qualitatively ) ? ?
shortage of sales management talent .
men qualified for the broader task of marketing manager are even more scarce due to the demanding combination of qualifications called for by this type of management work .
does your company have a program for selecting and developing sales and marketing management personnel for the longer term ? ?
complexity of complete marketing planning .
`` hip-pocket '' tactics are going to be harder to apply .
they have to be .
are planning and strategy development emphasized sufficiently in your company ? ?
are annual marketing plans reviewed throughout your management group to get the perspective of all individuals and get everyone on the marketing team ? ?
the key to effective marketing is wrapped up in defining your company's marketing problems realistically .
if companies will take the time to give objective consideration to their major problems and to the questions they provoke , then a long constructive step will have been taken toward more effective marketing in next decade .
the architects do not believe that the education of the interior designer is sufficiently good or sufficiently extended to compare with that of the architect and that , therefore , the interior designer is incapable of understanding the architectural principles involved in planning the interior of a building .
it is true that most architectural schools have five year courses , some even have six or more .
this would , naturally , lengthen their courses far beyond the largely esthetic demands of interior designer's training .
the real question that follows is -- how are those four years used and what is their value as training ? ?
an examination of some forty catalogs of schools offering courses in interior design , for the most part schools accredited by membership in the national association of schools of art , and a further `` on the spot '' inspection of a number of schools , show their courses adhere pretty closely to the recommendations .
the suggested course of the a.i.d. was based on the usual course offered and on the opinion of many educators as to curricular necessities .
without comparing the relative merits of the two courses -- architecture versus interior design -- let us examine the educational needs of the interior designer .
`` the dictionary of occupational titles '' published by the u. s. department of labor describes him as follows : `` designs , plans and furnishes interiors of houses , commercial and institutional structures , hotels , clubs , ships , theaters , as well as set decorations for motion picture arts and television .
furnishes complete cost estimates for clients approval .
in addition to this the u. s. civil service bureau , when examining applicants for government positions as interior designers , expects that `` when various needed objects are not obtainable on the market he will design them .
this seems like a large order .
yet nobody will question the necessity of all this and any reputable interior designer does know all this and does practice it .
few will quarrel with the aim of the schools or with the wording of their curriculum .
the old established independent art schools try their best to fulfill their obligations .
as in a recent design competition with a floor plan and the simple command -- `` design a luxury apartment '' ; ;
working in a vacuum of minimal information can result only in show pieces that look good in exhibitions and catalogs and may please the public relations department but have little to do with the essence of interior design .
unfortunately , the purely synthetic problem is the rule .
instead they learn their dissection on the bulbs of plants .
in the earlier years of training certain phases of the work must be covered and the synthetic problem has its use .
consultation with architects , clients , real estate men , fabric houses and furniture companies is essential to the proper development of class problems just as in actual work .
even the `` history of furniture '' can hardly be taught exclusively from photographs and lantern slides .
the professional organizations such as american institute of interior designers , national society of interior designers , home fashions league and various trade associations , can and do aid greatly in this work .
not only should every educator above the rank of instructor be expected to be a member of one of the professional organizations , but his first qualification for membership as an educator should be so sharply scrutinized that membership would be equivalent to certification to teach the subject .
the largest of these organizations at present denies to the full time educator any vote on the conduct and standards of the group and , indeed , refuses him even the right to attach the customary initials after his name in the college catalog .
the professor in turn dares not tolerate the influence in his classes of an organization in the policies and standards of which he has no voice .
in one way the institutes and societies do a disservice to the schools .
when these groups were first formed many prominent and accomplished decorators could not have had the advantage of school training since interior design courses were rare and undeveloped during their youth .
the necessity of that day has long disappeared .
it is discouraging for students to realize that the societies do not truly uphold the standards for which they are supposed to stand .
no one can deny that these `` back door '' admissions to membership provisions have been seriously abused nor that they have not resulted in the admission of downright incompetents to membership in supposedly learned societies .
it will occur to anyone that the teacher must have adequate education , a depth and breadth of knowledge far beyond the immediate necessities of his course plus complete dedication to his subject and to his students .
nor will the hack , the jack-of-all-trades , still found in some of the smaller art schools , suffice .
at the end of its letter was the information that applicants for this position `` must also be prepared to teach costume design and advertising art '' .
we must build a corps of highly professional teachers of interior design who have had education , experience in the profession and are willing to take on the usual accompaniments of teaching -- minimal income and minimal status among their confreres .
in all `` degree '' courses in interior design a number of `` academic '' or `` general studies '' courses are included .
the proper correlation of the art with the academic can be achieved only if this standard is observed .
one technical question of school organization comes to mind here .
since there are almost no schools in the country offering graduate work in interior design this rule cannot at present be observed .
the question , however , cannot be ignored for long .
most professors in the course must , naturally , again have a higher degree than the course offers .
it is a sort of academic ring-around-a-rosy and you solve it .
only the independent art schools , that is , those not connected with any university or college , receive severe and separate investigation before accreditation by the various regional organizations .
this , plus the habit of many schools of simply adding interior design to the many subjects of their home economics department , yet , nevertheless , claiming that they teach interior design , has contributed to the low repute of many university courses in interior design .
there will be no mitigation of these offences until all art schools , whether independent or attached to universities have separate accreditation -- as do medical schools -- by an art accreditation group such as the `` national association of schools of art '' .
general
have you permitted it to become a giveaway program rather than one that has the goal of improved employee morale and , consequently , increased productivity ? ?
do you measure its relation to reduced absenteeism , turnover , accidents , and grievances , and to improved quality and output ? ?
is it reaching these goals ? ?
are you using the most economical printing methods , paper , etc. .
has your attitude toward employee benefits encouraged an excess of free `` government '' work in your plant ? ?
when improvements are recommended in working conditions -- such as lighting , rest rooms , eating facilities , air-conditioning -- do you try to set a measure of their effectiveness on productivity ? ?
can you consider restricting any additional employee benefits to those paid for by profit-sharing money , such as was done in the union contract recently signed by american motors corporation ? ?
do your employees understand all the benefits to which your insurance entitles them ? ?
have you publicized the cents-per-hour value of the company's share of insurance premiums ? ?
can your insurance company aid you in reducing administrative costs ? ?
holidays , time off , overtime
do you plan to limit additional holidays to area and/or industrial patterns ? ?
are you carefully policing wash-up time and rest periods to be certain that all other time is productive ? ?
are you careful to restrict the number of people on leave at one time so that your total employment obligation is minimized ? ?
have you considered using vending equipment to replace or reduce the number of cafeteria employees ? ?
have you checked the cost of subcontracting your cafeteria operation in order to save administrative costs ? ?
can staggered lunch periods relieve the capacity strain on your feeding facilities ? ?
have you considered gradual withdrawal of subsidies to your in-plant feeding operation ? ?
recreation facilities
have you audited your program recently to weed out those phases that draw least participation ? ?
have you considered delegating operational responsibility to your employee association and carefully restricting your plant's financial contribution ? ?
would a camera club be useful in taking pictures pertinent to plant safety ? ?
are you underwriting expensive team trips ? ?
transportation and parking
if you use parking attendants , can they be replaced by automatic parking gates ? ?
if you provide inter-plant transportation , can this be replaced by available public transportation ? ?
how efficient and necessary are your intra-company vehicles ? ?
can part-time drivers be assigned to other productive work ? ?
which is more economical for your plant -- a vacation shutdown or spaced vacations that require extra employees for vacation fill-ins ? ?
do you insist that unneeded salary employees take their vacations during plant shutdowns ? ?
retirement
what sort of effort do you make to assure that older or disabled workers are fully productive ? ?
will your union accept seniority concessions in assigning work for older or disabled employees ? ?
can you share medical facilities and staff with neighboring plants ? ?
can your plant nurse be replaced by a trained first-aid man who works full-time on some other assignment ? ?
are you indiscriminantly offering unnecessary medical services -- flu shots , sun lamp treatments , etc. ? ?
a program to fit your needs
too many plant officials are all too eager to buy a package program from an insurance company simply because it works for another plant .
how old is your working force ? ?
in what section of the country are you located ? ?
these factors can make the difference between waste and efficiency in any benefit program .
unions stress fringe benefits , but the individual hourly worker prefers cash every time .
some plants go overboard on one type of fringe -- say a liberal retirement plan -- and find themselves vulnerable elsewhere .
communications
encourage them to exercise their benefits .
some companies find a little imagination helpful .
m & r dietetic laboratories , inc. , columbus , gives all its workers a facsimile checkbook -- each check showing the amount the company spends on a particular fringe .
the blue-collar worker thus knows his insurance package , for example , costs $227.72 .
have the insurance company or your own accounting department break down the cost of your insurance package periodically .
check to see if some of your benefits -- such as on-the-job disability pay -- can be put on a direct payment rather than an insured basis at a savings to you .
it can put an end to marginal claims which play havoc with your insurance rates .
this will mean that every time there's an increase in hospital rates your cost will go up in like manner .
don't go overboard on insurance that pays benefits only upon death .
special time off
thus , you avoid headaches when an employee wants off for his fourth cousin's funeral .
coffee breaks can be a real headache if not regulated .
if coffee is sold at the cafeteria , let a few workers in each department get it for the whole group .
make sure milk for the coffee is placed in dispensers rather than in containers , if you are supplying the coffee .
retirement policies
and so deadheads on the payroll can be eased out at the earliest possible age .
younger men usually don't think of pensions as an important job benefit factor anyhow and they're liable to change jobs several times before settling down .
there are two sides of a coin for this decision .
and they can at least collect the money they put in , plus interest , when they leave the company .
thus , there is an added incentive to stay on the job .
make sure you don't pay for holidays that occur when an employee would not otherwise be working .
consider adopting a system of holidays in which time off is granted with an eye to minimum inconvenience to the operation of the plant .
for example , the friday after thanksgiving can be substituted for washington's birthday .
require each employee to work his last shift both before and after the holiday to be eligible for pay .
eating facilities
latest models serve hot meals at reasonable prices , and at a profit to you .
if the soup tastes like dishwater , your employees won't blame the concessionaire .
check your cafeteria location to make sure it's convenient for most employees .
vacations
this will cut the expense of vacation replacements .
also make sure you have reasonable requirements as to hours worked before a production employee is entitled to a vacation .
the long and ever-increasing column of sportsmen is now moving into a new era .
the early years of the twentieth century seem very far away .
as the generations move on , clothes become more suitable for the enjoyment of outdoor sports .
just as modern transportation has outmoded the early studebaker covered wagon , the demand of today's sportsmen and women has necessitated changes in their equipment .
and millions of rounds of entirely new and modern small-arms ammunition , designed for today's hunting and target shooting .
present conservation practices regard wildlife , not as an expendable natural resource , but as an annual harvest to be sown and also reaped .
close to two million game birds were harvested on 1,500 commercial and private shooting preserves , and on state game commission-controlled upland game areas during the 1960-61 season .
the most effective way to develop more places for more sportsmen to shoot is to encourage properly managed shooting preserves .
following the kick-off of saami's shooting development program in 1954 , a most interesting meeting took place in washington , d.c. .
this meeting was called to determine how these groups might cooperate to launch what is known as the outdoor education project .
the various team sports assuredly have their place in every school , and they are important to proper physical development .
following a vigorous campaign of interpretation and leadership development by oep director dr. julian smith , today thousands of secondary schools , colleges and universities have shooting and hunting education in their physical education and recreation programs .
personnel assigned through the shooting development program have proudly participated in over 53 state and regional workshops , at which hundreds of school administrators , teachers , professors , and recreational leaders have been introduced to outdoor education .
in 1959 saami's shooting development program announced a new activity designed to expose thousands of teen-age boys and girls to the healthy fun enjoyed through the participation in the shooting sports .
teen hunter clubs were initially sponsored by affiliated members of the allied merchandising corporation .
other pilot programs were conducted by a & s , babylon , new york ; ;
joseph horne , pittsburgh .
saami's field men have served as consultants and/or have participated in 75 teen hunter club activities which have reached over 40,000 enthusiastic young americans .
the continuation and expansion of the shooting development program will assure to some degree that national and community leaders will be made aware of the ever-growing need for shooting facilities and activities for hunting and shooting in answer to public demand .
help is needed from dealers , at the grass-roots level .
since saami's conception in 1926 , and more specifically since the adoption of the shooting development program in 1954 , millions of dollars and promotional man-hours have gone into the development of more places to shoot for more youths and adults .
are you getting top dollar from the shooting sports ? ?
is your sporting firearms and ammunition department primed for the expanding horizons ? ?
ask sammy shooter .
this beach campground with no trees or hills presents a constant camping show with all manner of equipment in actual use .
there were umbrella tents , wall tents , cottage tents , station wagon tents , pup tents , pop tents , baker tents , tents with exterior frames , camper trailers , travel trailers , and even a few surplus parachutes serving as sunshades over entire family camps .
we saw similar displays in the other three campgrounds in this 70-mile-long national seashore recreation area .
here you begin to appreciate the scope of the challenges and possibilities facing the industry .
no one knows where it will stop .
you read various guesses on how many americans are camping .
the figures range as high as 15 million families .
seven million families would total 30 million americans or more .
more campers than campsites
they are struggling to meet the demand for camping space , but families are being turned away , especially on holiday weekends .
the national park service hopes by 1966 to have 30,000 campsites available for 100,000 campers a day -- almost twice what there are at present .
but the campers still come .
they bring their fishing rods and binoculars and bathing suits .
why they keep coming
among them , according to the u.s. department of commerce , are : ( 1 ) shorter work weeks , ( 2 ) higher pay , ( 3 ) longer paid vacations , ( 4 ) better transportation , ( 5 ) earlier retirement , and ( 6 ) more education .
camping is family fun , and it is helping more americans see more of the country than they ever saw before .
here is the promise of a vacation trip they can afford .
the aaa then splits it down this way : $10.50 for meals , $9.50 for lodging , $7 for gas and oil , and $2 for tips and miscellaneous .
the $9.50 for lodging they save .
the automobile expenses are about the only vacationing cost they can't either eliminate or pare down drastically by camping along the way .
long weekends enable many to get away from home for three or four days several times a year .
it would be a mistake to sell those thousands of beginning campers on the idea they're buying the comforts of home .
home is the place to find the comforts of home .
but it would also be a mistake for them not to realize how comfortable camping has become .
today's campers want comforts , and they have them .
it's fun , and it's easy -- so easy that there is time left after cooking , and tent keeping , for the women to get out and enjoy outdoor fun with their families .
neither are beds , thanks to air mattresses and sleeping bags .
but there is still the sometimes complex problem of helping campers choose the best equipment for their individual needs .
since the industrial revolution , when factories emerged , this classical pattern has been followed .
there have always been tales of disillusionment -- the competent technician who became an administrator , willingly or not , and found he didn't like it ; ;
and much more commonly in recent years , the engineer who found that other duties interfered with -- or eliminated -- his engineering contributions .
this has been more evident since our products have incorporated astronomically increased technology .
but the realization has been growing that these are not the complete answer .
forcing them into management can only create trouble .
yet our economy clings inexorably to recognition of managerial status as the gage of success .
all grades of management seek more resounding titles and incomes because of social pressures .
what can be done for the `` individual contributor '' who is extremely important -- and likely to be more so -- in the operation of the technically oriented company ? ?
usually concerned about america's belief that attainment and success are measured in dollars and titles .
even the college professor in america has been affected .
this difficulty arises even though we can give examples of men who have actually followed this course .
nobody should be more able to answer the questions on this score than engineering vice-presidents and chief engineers .
in the paragraphs that follow , we quote from 32 men who are identified on the final page .
among the more familiar plans for dual-channel advancement is that of general electric .
there is no one point in a man's career at which he must select either the technical or the managerial path upward .
it is common to shift back and forth , working up through a number of supervisory and individual-contributor positions .
also , moving into a managerial position does not necessarily end a man's recognition as a technical expert .
the late w. r. g. baker , a pioneer in television design and long-time vp & gm of the electronics division , and later , by his own choice , an individual consultant .
in the ge plan , a number of individual contributors have positions and compensation higher than those of many managers .
consultant , advanced development
consulting engineer , heat transfer
senior electrical engineer ,
westinghouse has a similar system , with two classifications representing various levels of competence on the strictly technical side : consulting engineer or scientist , as the case may be , and advisory engineer or scientist .
another factor that may hold hope is for parallel recognition is , as one man says it : `` that the fad for educating top people along managerial lines is yielding to the technically trained approach '' .
one company instituted , early in 1959 , a vertical classification system consisting of four levels .
the top non-supervisory level , senior staff engineer , enjoys status and pay ranging up to that for the second level of engineering supervision .
the expectation is that first-level supervisors will be selected in approximately equal numbers from the second and third engineering level , with very few coming from the first level .
in this organization , about half of the engineers with 15 or more years of employment are in supervision , engineering or elsewhere .
several other examples : central and satellite
we have set up a central r & d department , as well as engineering-management departments -- about 80 people working on problems related to those of our plants .
part of this headquarters staff , however , are engineering managers who work between divisional chief engineers and headquarters management .
and many are engineers who have been advanced from the divisions .
they must learn to wear several hats , so to speak , working with management , sales and engineering problems related to the product .
i suppose it is because we are just not big enough .
the only ' fellows ' in our company are those who have been honored by asme , aiee or aiche .
another structure
one way to formalize this is in the job structure .
`` above these jobs we have chief engineer for the company and vice-president of engrg , r & aj .
we have not yet succeeded in establishing recognition of technical specialization comparable to our higher levels of management , but i believe we will trend in this direction but not to exceed vice-president '' .
`` .
the highest position is known as a ' research scientist .
the primary deterrent appears to lie with the technical people themselves , and their concept of what constitutes status in present-day society .
we have discovered that the outward trappings such as private offices and private secretaries are extremely important ; ;
`` a serious problem accompanying the technical-ladder approach is the difficulty of clearly defining responsibilities and standards of performance for each level .
promotion is too often based on longevity and time in salary grade instead of merit .
staff engineer dept. manager
and an administrative organization to take the routine load away from department managers and project engineers as much as possible , thus allowing them more time for strictly technical work .
a complete plan
the highest rated non-supervisory engineering title is ' research engineer .
we also have an ' engineering section head -- research engineer ' classification which has salary possibilities equivalent to that of a research engineer .
`` we also do a number of things to build up the prestige of the engineer as a ' professional ' and also to give public recognition to individual technical competence .
we have two media for publicizing individual technical activity , a magazine widely distributed both within and without the company , and an information bulletin for engineering personnel distributed to the homes of all engineers .
`` a recent , and more pertinent action , has been the establishment of a technical staff reporting to the vice-president for engineering .
salaries compare favorably with those paid to the first two or three levels of management .
`` we presently are involved in inaugurating a new development center .
all scientific staff members will have the title , ' research-staff member .
contrary to usual organization-position evaluations , the position to which research-staff members report administratively will not necessarily encompass the duties of the research-staff member , therefore , are not necessarily evaluated as highly .
it is doubtful that the complete solution to the over-all problem can result entirely from company efforts .
sixty miles north of new york city where the wooded hills of dutchess county meet the broad sweep of the hudson river there is a new home development called `` oakwood heights '' .
but oakwood heights is unique in one particular .
this is a pilot operation sponsored by a new entity chartered in delaware as the tri-state pipeline corporation , with principal offices in new york state .
vice-president is louis berkman and the secretary-treasurer is mark ritter .
the idea of a central tank with lines to each house is not in itself a novelty .
its editors only knew of one example to point to , a public housing development of 278 homes in new haven described by john schulz in the march , 1950 issue .
rather the monthly total consumption was divided and charged on the basis of number of rooms and persons in the family .
as a result of that attitude , others have been discouraged from trying central distribution .
called a `` slo-flo '' meter it was designed for this job by power plus industries of los angeles , a key individual being don nelson .
there's an advantage in having a firm like tri-state headed by a lawyer .
these have to do with property rights , municipal official attitudes and a host of others .
it is always difficult , or at least time-consuming , to get approval of any kind of line under a public street , as one example .
when a family buys a home the title is subject to a perpetual easement to tri-state .
in other words , the whole storage and pipeline system does not belong to the homeowners nor to the town but rather to tri-state .
it leases the whole facility to a large oil company , at least large enough to have a strong credit position .
the amount paid by the oil company to tri-state for the use of its oil distribution system and the privilege of supplying all the homes , is subject to negotiation but naturally must be profitable to both parties .
the supplier delivers at his convenience in transport loads , so as to maintain two-to-three weeks reserve supply against weather contingencies .
he must undertake complete servicing of the oilheating equipment to assure fine heating .
again , the oil man must read the meters at such intervals as he finds best .
the major gets the assured gallonage for the life of the lease and the distributor apparently can do well because delivery cost is low .
the officers of the new corporation have naturally explored many angles , as well as personalities that might be affected .
the central storage is near a main artery quite easy to reach with large transports on a short crescent swing , with fewer trucks in the residential streets .
several financial institutions , both banks and insurance companies , have been sounded out .
the government housing agencies consider it feasible with one special stipulation .
for a few details of the system the lines are 1-1/4'' '' x-tru-coat , a product of republic steel corp. , and all lines are welded .
the meter is mounted high on the basement wall .
it will accommodate firing rates as low as a half gallon an hour .
he believes that this is a sound approach to gas competition in builder developments where gas is available .
the job of getting property easements and street easements and the acre for the tanks would become pretty discouraging .
future plans
it wants to interest builders and oil companies in the idea of including its facility in their new home projects , by financing and installing the storage , piping and meters , and leasing these for 15 years , with renewal options , to a strong oil company .
this whole development is certain to be of interest to the readers , for the idea has so often been mentioned , somewhat wistfully .
only eight of the 50 houses were completed at the time of the editor's visit on june 8th ; ;
the big tanks were at the site but still sunning themselves .
the oilheating industry is looking up , led by a revival of research and development .
every year about this time national gargle your cooling system week rolls around .
do it this way for the summer gargle :
don't save the anti-freeze , even if it the expensive `` permanent '' type .
the rust inhibitors in the fluid are used up after one year , and you don't want to risk the rust that two years' use could mean .
if a lot of rust shows in the drain , use a good flushing cleaner .
of course , you'll want to use the softest water you can in your radiators .
next , run the engine and let it heat up so the thermostat opens , and then look for leaks again .
use the air hose for this job .
if you use one of the new year-round cooling system fluids such as `` dowguard '' be sure to check it .
check its inhibitor effectiveness before leaving it in during the summer .
don't let your mechanics pull the thermostats out of those fueloil delivery trucks or installation rigs of yours .
the fact is that removing and leaving out a thermostat from any water cooled vehicle , will greatly increase the fuel consumption , reduce power and contribute to spark plug fouling due to an accumulation of excessive carbon deposits on the insulators .
the thermostat is important to get your engine up to operating temperature quickly , and to keep it running at its most efficient temperature through the proper circulation of the coolant .
there's a good chance you are doubling on some coverage , not taking discounts coming to you and not cutting some corners that can be cut .
be careful that you keep adequate coverage , but look for places to save money .
look for these features which may mean you can save :
avoid doubling up on the same item .
does your policy have a lay-up clause ? ?
this applies to repair work of winter storage .
with many company policies you get a fleet discount if you insure five or more rigs .
discounts run up to 2% of cost .
for example : if your bodily injury claims start payment after the first $250 , a 25% premium saving is often made .
the importance of the sign industry to the plastics industry , however , is not in terms of volume alone .
many of today's developments in thermoforming stem from original work done with signs and displays ; ;
and the reverse-surface decorating techniques now used for escutcheons , medallions , etc. , owes much to the field , as does the technology of designing with the light-transmitting properties of the transparent plastics .
the concept of trans-illumination ( as shown by the photo on p. 92 ) , as just one example , offers an entirely new approach to lighting problems -- no matter what industry is involved .
according to a recent wall street journal survey , plastics units now account for more than 50% of all sign sales .
and it's far from the end for plastics .
evidence of this trend can best be seen in the recent activities of such leading companies in the field as advance neon sign co. , los angeles , calif. .
today , 85% is in plastics .
aggregate sales during 1960 reached approximately $500 million .
why the trend to plastics ? ?
out of many factors which might be cited , five are most important : 1 .
2 .
according to one major producer , materials for a typical plastic sign are approximately 25% less costly than for a comparable neon unit .
a 3-by-6-ft. plastic sign weighs about 120 lb. , compared to 275-300 lb. for neon .
the lighter weight also means less costly supports and mountings are needed .
3 .
vacuum- and pressure-formed sheet plastics fill the gap between cardboard and molded plastics .
4 .
internal illumination , protected from the elements , gives them powerful visual appeal at night ; ;
5 .
among the newest fabrication methods to enter the display field are expandable styrene molding and blow molding .
for outdoor signs and displays , acrylic , with its outstanding optical characteristics , weather resistance and formability , strongly dominates the picture .
( see panel , p. 166 , for a comparison .
of interest is a recent announcement by du pont's polychemicals dept. of a new methyl methacrylate monomer designated as monocite h 100 , which was developed specifically for production of cast acrylic sheets for the sign and lighting industry .
its high impact strength , even at low temperatures , resists chipping , cracking , and crazing , according to du pont .
its clarity and good optical properties are other important factors .
thermoforming the laminate and then sanding away the top layer is a quick and economical way to produce a two-color sign .
for specialized types of displays , such as large three-dimensional units reproducing a product , package , human or animal figures , etc. , reinforced plastics and rotationally molded vinyl plastisols are other materials frequently used .
for outdoor signs and displays , where the problem of weathering resistance is no longer a factor , the choice of plastics is almost unlimited .
the final choice of material depends upon such factors as costs , method of fabrication , degree of complexity , number of units required , time available for tooling , and projected life expectancy of the unit .
trans-illuminated billboards
the essential difference between the new trans-illuminated boards and existing billboards is that the former , constructed of translucent plastic panels , are lighted from within .
also , the light sources are shielded from dirt and weather exposure and cannot obstruct the view of the sign .
the film has an adhesive on the back which permits it to be stripped onto the acrylic panels forming the sign , and also to be stripped off for replacement by new copy as required .
new panels are exchanged for the old right in the field on a single trip .
signs of this type have already made their appearance in several larger cities , and others are on the way .
trans-illuminated signs also show versatility in other directions .
thus the film can be applied to back-lighted translucent plastics faces ; ;
in this way , the sign maker has an economical means for displaying uniform copy on different sign media .
comprised of 16 triangular trans-illuminated plastic sections , it makes it possible to combine three different signs in a single unit .
sixteen panels , each slightly more than 1-1/2 ft. wide , make up the 25-ft. length of the sign .
perhaps the best way to indicate the versatility of design that characterizes the use of plastics in signs and displays would be to look at what is happening in only one of the areas in this complex field -- changeable signs .
frequently , the message must be changed at intervals to feature new products , price changes , etc. .
here are some of the newer items currently available :
the background , which is available in various widths and continuous lengths , is extruded with parallel undercut grooves which grip the flexible letters securely .
ideal for merchandising use , they are weather-resistant , and have mounting pegs on the back which fit into openings in a vacuum-formed waffle-pattern background panel .
for example , in a typical store installation , fifty 24-in. and six 36-in. red acrylic letters were mounted against a white painted wood background .
stainless steel screws were used to minimize corrosion stains .
large injection-molded letters are also available for sign installations .
they are molded of a special weather-resistant formulation of tenite butyrate .
made in lengths from 3 to 10 ft. , the bars are shaped in cross section to provide a secure fit for the tapered slots molded in back of the letters .
this vacuum formed sign is comprised of 27-in. ( or smaller ) panels formed of 0.080-in. clear butyrate sheet stock , masked and sprayed on the rear side .
the sheets are extruded of tenite butyrate by jet specialties co. , los angeles , calif. .
joined side by side , such channels make possible construction of continuous two-dimensional luminous areas up to 50 ft. high and of unlimited width .
new rule no. 2 : :
.
position your components before you close them in .
don't wall in your kitchen before you hang the wall cabinets and set the appliances .
set your bathtub before you close in the end of the bathroom .
finish your plumbing before you frame it in ( most economical framing is a thin non-bearing partition on either side of the pipes ) .
there is no better way to waste time than trying to install a furnace in a finished af closet .
that way you may pay more to shim the window into place than you paid for the window .
install your disappearing stair ( or stairs ) to the attic and finish your overhead ducts before you drywall the ceiling .
last wall bob schmitt erects is the wall between the house and garage .
no auto maker would dream of putting the head on the engine before he fitted the pistons in the block .
new rule no. 3 : rethink everything to get all the big savings the revolution in materials handling offers you
this revolution is the biggest build-better-for-less news of all , because : 1 .
2 .
3 .
it lessens the need for costly on-site fabrication and increases the chance for shop fabrication , where almost everything can be made better and cheaper .
it changes the answers on when to do what at the site .
instead of closing the house in first ( as most builders do ) you can now cut your costs by not closing it in until you have to ( see p 121 ) .
it changes the answers on builder-dealer relations .
but now many of these same builders are finding they can cut their costs more by teaming up with a dealer who has volume enough to afford the most efficient specialized equipment to deliver everything just where it is needed -- drywall inside the house , siding along the sides , trusses on the walls , roofing on the roof , etc. .
the revolution now under way in materials handling makes this much easier .
.
`` only one lumber dealer in ten is equipped to handle unit loads ; ;
only one producer in a hundred is equipped to package and ship unit loads ; ;
`` so from raw materials to finished erection the costs of materials handling ( most of it inefficient ) add up to one-fourth of the total construction cost of housing '' .
`` it made our whole industry recognize the need for a new kind of teamwork between manufacturer , carrier , equipment maker , dealer , and builder , all working together to cut the cost of materials handling .
here is where things stand today :
almost all of the 3,000 lumber dealers who cater primarily to the new-house market and supply 90% of this year's new houses are mechanized .
2 .
3 .
for some significant new items see the pictures .
more than 50% of all lumber is unitized ; ;
of these , 376 said they make no extra charge for strapping in standard units , because they save enough on mechanized carloading to offset their strapping cost .
`` with a 15,500-lb. fork-lift , dealers can unload unitized lumber from wide-door box cars for $.30/mbf compared with $1.65 or more to unload loose lumber one piece at a time '' , says james wright of aj .
lumber dealers and lumber manufacturers have agreed on a standard unit for unitized shipments -- 48'' '' wide by a nominal 30'' '' high ( or six mccracken packets 24'' '' wide by nominal 7'' '' high ) .
6 .
first was a 1958 cut of more than 50% on that portion of the load in excess of 40,000 lb ; ;
7 .
for long hauls these shipments should be protected with water-proof paper .
these carriers cut handling costs for the dealer -- and the builder
says nrlda's james wright : `` since 1958 carriers that move material from the yard to the job site have undergone more radical changes than any of the dealer's other equipment '' .
so manufacturers have pioneered a new type of vehicle -- the self-unloading carrier .
and it helps the builder because it can handle a more efficiently packaged load , can deliver it to the best spot ( in some cases , right on the roof or inside the house ) , and never takes any of the builder's high-priced labor to help unload it .
and most of the gain will be in self-unloading vehicles '' .
restudy what your men do , to help them waste less of the time you pay for
half the manhours you pay for on most jobs are wasted because the job was not planned right , so the right tools were not handy at the right place at the right time , or the right materials were not delivered to the handiest spots or materials were not stacked in the right order for erection , or you bought cheap materials that took too long to fit , or your workmen had to come back twice to finish a job they could have done on one trip .
already this study has suggested ways to cut his foundation manhours from 170 to 105 by eliminating idle time and wasted motion .
a midwestern builder cut his labor costs per thousand bricks from $81 to $43.50 by adopting this same process , cut them another $7.50 to $36 by buying his bricks in convenient , easy-to-spot 100-brick packages .
see page 156 .
reports jim lendrum : `` by studying men on the job , we found that two men -- a carpenter and a helper -- can lay a floor faster than three .
they make one inefficient three-men-and-a-helper team .
no house was ever built that could not have been built better for less if the work had been better planned and the work better scheduled .
don't waste any $.10-a-minute time on green lumber to save $.03 a stud
this is the most penny-wise , pound-foolish chisel a builder can commit .
but now that all production builders build with drywall and all smart builders build with panels , green lumber is an anachronism you cannot afford .
dry studs cost less than $.03 more .
there comes a time in the lives of most of us when we want to be alone .
if you've travelled in europe a time or two , it is quite certain that you've had that wanting-to-be-alone feeling or that you will get it on your next visit across the atlantic .
however , after you've seen all the historical piazzas and plazas , the places and forums , the churches and museums , the palaces and castles , and begin to feel at home in the capitals of europe , you'll want to change your course and follow the by-roads at will , far from the market places .
you can relive history and follow , in fancy , the crusaders in their quest for the holy grail as they sail out from brindisi , an ancient town in the heel of italy's boot .
time stands still as you climb the narrow , stone stairways in tiny villages clinging to steep mountain slopes or wander through story-book towns , perched atop lofty crags , their faces turned to the sea .
and what better way to end a day than by dining with artists and gourmets in a squat but charming fisherman's village on the mediterranean ? ?
for those who need or want and can afford another car , buying one and driving it on the grand tour , then shipping it home , is one popular plan for a do-it-yourself pilgrimage .
the answer to this diathesis is to pick up a telephone and arrange to rent one .
almost any travel agent will reserve a car for you .
with few exceptions , your car will be waiting for you at dockside , airport , railroad station or hotel when you arrive , oftentimes at no additional cost .
the disadvantages to this method are that you may not have as great a choice of models readily available or you may have to wait a few days or , during the busy tourist season , when cars are in great demand , you might find it fairly difficult to get a car at all .
for those who plan to travel to europe by one route and return by another some agencies offer a service whereby you can pick up a car in one city on arrival and leave it in another city , or even another country , when you are ready to return home .
international touring documents are usually provided with the car as are road maps and touring data .
if you plan to visit any of these countries , you can obtain your international driving permit before you leave at a nominal fee -- around $3.00 .
if you would feel happier with full collision insurance , there is a small additional charge , again varying from country to country and depending on the term of such insurance .
the charge is variable , however , and goes as low as $.50 a day in ireland and as high as $2.00 a day in greece .
there are as many rates as there are countries and models of cars available .
it drops again after fifteen and/or twenty-one days .
your choice of model will undoubtedly be governed by the number of people travelling in your group .
there is a large variety of models to choose from in most countries , however , including 6-passenger sedans and station wagons and the rental fee isn't all that much greater than for the wee sedans .
there is the free intra-city `` rent it here , leave it there '' service , as an example , the free delivery and collection at the airport , dockside or your hotel , luggage racks , touring documents and information and other similar services .
the investigation will be well worth your time .
quite naturally , there is a greater availability of those models which are manufactured within a specific country .
if you wish to budget closely on transportation , saving your extra dollars to indulge in luxuries , one agency lists the small fiat 500 at only $1.26 a day plus $.03 a kilometer and the fiat 2100 station wagon , seating six , at just $1.10 a day and $.105 a kilometer .
with six in the group , the cost comes to just a nickel a day per person on the daily fee .
the same model car might be available in six or eight countries , yet not two countries will have the same rate either for the daily rate or rate per kilometer driven .
rates for american cars are somewhat higher , ranging from about $8.00 a day up to $14.00 a day for a chevrolet convertible , but the rate per kilometer driven is roughly the same as for the larger european models .
if you are planning to tour europe for longer than a month , it might be wise for you to lease a car .
you will be entitled to all the advantages of a new car owner , which includes the factory guarantee and the services valid at authorized dealers throughout europe .
there is a fairly wide selection of models of english , german and french manufacture from which you can choose from the very small austin 7 , citroen 2 cv , volkswagens , renaults to the 6-passenger simca beaulieu .
after the first month , rates are considerably less , averaging only about $60 a month for most 4- and 5-passenger models .
for one thing , the driver usually sees less and has less fun than his passengers since it becomes pretty necessary for him to keep at least one eye on the road .
still there is a way for those who want to see some of the back country of europe by car .
it isn't as expensive as most people believe it to be .
the big spread is in the charge for each kilometer driven , being governed by the rate at which gasoline is consumed .
the fees for the rental of chauffeur-driven cars vary in the different countries in the same manner as they do for the drive-yourself cars .
this will include your helpful , english-speaking chauffeur and a drive of an average of 150 kilometers in any one day .
of course , if you want to throw all caution to the winds and rent an imperial or cadillac limousine just for you and your bride , you'll have a memorable tour , but it won't be cheap , and it is not recommended unless you own a producing oil well or you've had a winner in the irish sweepstakes .
just about the most enthralling real-life example of meeting cute is the charles macarthur-helen hayes saga : reputedly all he did was give her a handful of peanuts , but he said simultaneously , `` i wish they were emeralds '' .
the way macarthur said his line -- if you had the recorded transcript of a professional linguist -- would probably have gone like this : af primary stresses on emeralds and wish ; ;
conclusions : the people involved ( and subsequent facts bear me out here ) knew clearly the relative values of peanuts and emeralds , both monetary and sentimental .
in other words , like automation machines designed to work in tandem , they shared the same programming , a mutual understanding not only of english words , but of the four stresses , pitches , and junctures that can change their meaning from black to white .
but consider , if you can bear it , what might have happened if macarthur , for some perverse , undaunted reason , had made the same remark to an eskimo girl in eskimo .
the point -- quite simply -- is this : words they might have had ; ;
this basic principle , the first in a richly knotted bundle , was conveyed to me by dr. henry lee smith , jr. , at the university of buffalo , where he heads the world's first department of anthropology and linguistics .
later , he became one of the central spirits of the army language program and the language school of washington's foreign service institute .
to the trained ear of the linguist , talk has always revealed a staggering quantity of information about the talker -- such things as geographical origin and/or history , socio-economic identity , education .
this , for obvious reasons , makes their techniques superbly useful in studying the psychiatric interview , so useful , in fact , that they have been successfully used to suggest ways to speed diagnosis and to evaluate the progress of therapy .
smith's first workout with stresses , pitches , and junctures was based on mother , which spells , in our culture , a good deal more than bread alone .
the usual u.s. norm would be : af middle pitches , slight pause ( juncture ) before mother , slight rise at the end .
quite other feelings are evidenced by this style : af note the drop to pitch 1 ( the lowest ) on mother with no rise at the end of the sentence ; ;
even less regard for mom and mom's apple pie goes with : af in other words , the way the speaker relates to mother is clearly indicated .
an accompanying record of paralanguage factors for the second example might also note a throaty rasp .
the joint investigations of linguistics and psychiatry have established , in point of fact , that no matter what the subject of conversation is or what words are involved , it is impossible for people to talk at all without telling over and over again what sort of people they are and how they relate to the rest of the world .
some of the earliest recordings , made in the 1940's demonstrated that psychiatrists reacted immediately to anger and anxiety in the sound track , whereas written records of the same interview offered far fewer cues to therapy which -- if they were at all discernible in print -- were picked up only by the most skilled and sensitive experts .
at a minimum , recording -- usually on tape , which is now in wide professional use -- brings the psychiatric interview alive so that the full range of emotion and meaning can be explored repeatedly by the therapist or by a battery of therapists .
by adding a systematic analysis with symbols to the typed transcripts of interviews , they have supplied a new set of techniques for the therapist .
it flags such possible breakdowns of communication as rehearsed dialogue , the note of disapproval , ambivalence or ambiguity , annoyance , resentment , and the disinclination to speak at all -- this last often marked by a fade-in beginning of sentences .
his esoteric chartings of the voice alert the therapist to areas where deeper probing may bring to light underlying psychological difficulties , making them apparent first to the therapist and eventually to the patient .
or surprise , which would set the patient apart from other people .
aside from her specifically regional accent , she reveals by the use of the triad , `` irritable , tense , depressed '' , a certain pedantic itemization that indicates she has some familiarity with literary or scientific language ( i.e. , she must have had at least a high-school education ) , and she is telling a story she has mentally rehearsed some time before .
consequently , it is referred to the therapist for attention .
immediately thereafter , the patient fractures her rehearsed story , veering into an oversoft , breathy , sloppily articulated , `` i don't feel like talking right now '' .
she says later , but still within the opening five minutes , `` i keep thinking of a divorce but that's another emotional death '' .
so are certain signals that she does not accept divorce .
this the therapist may pursue in later questioning .
since the psychiatric interview , like any other interview , depends on communication , it is significant to note that the therapist in this interview was a man of marked skill and long experience .
interestingly enough -- although none of the real-life therapists involved could conceivably compare with blauberman -- when groups of them began playing back interviews , they discovered any number of ways in which they wanted to polish their own interview techniques ; ;
yet , in spite of this , intensive study of the taped interviews by teams of psychotherapists and linguists laid bare the surprising fact that , in the first five minutes of an initial interview , the patient often reveals as many as a dozen times just what's wrong with him ; ;
naturally , the patient does not say , `` i hate my father '' , or `` sibling rivalry is what bugs me '' .
some of the classic indicators , as described by drs. pittenger , hockett , and danehy in the first five minutes , are these : ambiguity of pronouns :
on the other hand significant facts may be concealed -- she may mean i or everybody , as it did with the tense and irritable woman mentioned before , may refer to a specific person .
therapist and/or linguist must always consider the alternatives .
( this patient , in actuality , was a neurasthenic who had almost come to the point of accepting the fact that it was not her soma but her psyche that was the cause of her difficulty .
she was just another freighter from the states , and she seemed as commonplace as her name .
the john harvey arrived in bari , a port on the adriatic , on november 28th , making for porto nuovo , which , as the name indicates , was the ancient city's new and modern harbor .
if anyone thought of the john harvey , it was to observe that she was straddled by a pair of ships heavily laden with high explosive and if they were hit the john harvey would likely be blown up with her own ammo and whatever else it was that she carried .
it had required the approval of president franklin delano roosevelt before the john harvey could be loaded with 100 tons of mustard gas and despatched to the italian warfront .
throughout the early years of world war 2 , , reports persisted that the axis powers had used gas -- germany in russia , japan in china again .
influential people in america were warning the pentagon to be prepared against desperation gas attacks by the germans in future campaigns .
to silence extremists , to warn the axis , president roosevelt issued this statement for the allies in august :
i have been loath to believe that any nation , even our present enemies , could or would be willing to loose upon mankind such terrible and inhumane weapons .
`` use of such weapons has been outlawed by the general opinion of civilized mankind .
i state categorically that we shall under no circumstances resort to the use of such weapons unless they are first used by our enemies '' .
bari was chosen as a depot , not only for its seeming safety , but because of its proximity to airfields .
it would be made in three waves -- the first to lay down a smokescreen , the second to drop the gas bombs , the third to shower incendiaries which would burn everything below .
a detachment of six men from the 701st chemical maintenance company under first lt. howard d. beckstrom went aboard , followed by lt. thomas h. richardson , the cargo security officer .
only a few other people -- very important people -- knew of the nitrogen-mustard eggs nestled below decks .
thus , in the immemorial way -- in the way of the right hand that knows and the left that does not -- was the stage set for tragedy at bari .
it was getting on toward 7 o'clock and the german me-210 plane had been and gone on its eighth straight visit .
he knew that german long-range bombers had been returning to the attack in italy .
two days later , some 30 of them had struck at a convoy off bougie , sinking a troopship -- and it had been that very night that the me-210 had made its first appearance .
`` for three days now a german reconnaissance plane has been over the city taking pictures .
but the older and wiser heads had dismissed his warning as alarmist .
true , there had been raids on naples -- but naples was pretty far north on the opposite coast .
more than that , allied air had complete superiority in the eighth army's sector .
for jenks knew that bari's defenses were made of paper .
there were no r.a.f. fighter squadrons on bari airfield .
telephone communication was bad .
it had been made shockingly evident that very morning to ensign kay k. vesole , in charge of the armed guard aboard the john bascom .
then he was to co-ordinate his fire with a radar-controlled shore gun firing white tracers .
`` it's up to you to protect yourselves .
they're all being used on offensive missions '' .
not fire until the bombs came down ! !
like hell ! !
what would his guns guide on then -- the north star ? ?
below decks , seaman 1/c stanley bishop had begun to write a letter home .
there were lights glinting in the city , too , even though it was now dark enough for a few stars to become visible .
for five days now , they had been in port and that filthy stuff was still in the hold .
he hoped they would put in somewhere way , way down in the earth .
lieutenant richardson could envy the officers and men of the john harvey in their innocent assumption that the ship contained nothing more dangerous than high explosive bombs .
nine of them had gone down the gangplank already .
richardson had returned their departing grins with the noncommittal nod that is the security officer's stock in trade .
richardson glanced to sea and started slightly .
the night was so clear that richardson had no difficulty making out the silhouette .
his eyes boggled .
capt. michael a. musmanno , military governor of the sorrentine peninsula , had also seen and felt the `` rain '' .
captain musmanno's renovated schooner with the flamboyant name unsinkable had just left porto vecchio with a cargo of badly-needed olive oil for the sorrentine's civilian population .
at exactly 7:30 , he felt a fluttering object brush his face .
he turned the beam of his flashlight on it .
it was the silver foil from the chocolate bar he had been eating .
but how could -- ? ?
it was two feet long .
it was `` window '' -- the tinsel paper dropped by bombers to jam radar sets , to fill the scope with hundreds of blips that would seem to be approaching bombers .
musmanno bellowed to his italian crewmen .
stop the engines '' ! !
they had come from airports in the balkans , these hundred-odd junkers 88's .
they had ruined the radar warning system with their window , they had made themselves invisible above their flares .
after the first two were blacked out , the third light was abandoned by a terrified italian crew , who left their light to shine for nine minutes like an unerring homing beacon until british mp's shot it out .
merchant ships illuminated in the light of the flares , made to seem like stones imbedded in a lake of polished mud , were impossible to miss .
captain musmanno roared at his men to lash three of the casks of olive oil together for a raft .
john bascom went down early , too .
most of the junkers were above the blinding light of the flares , and the radar-controlled shore gun had been knocked out by one of the first sticks of bombs .
he was wounded , but fought on .
bishop rushed on deck to grab a 20-mm gun , pumping out 400 rounds before sticks of three bombs each crashed into holds one , three and five .
luckily , she was not completely aflame and would go down before the gasoline could erupt .
there is a pause in the merriment as your friends gaze at you , wondering why you are staring , open-mouthed in amazement .
i can't tell when , but i'm positive i witnessed this same scene of this particular gathering at some time in the past '' ! !
emerson , in his lecture , refers to the `` startling experience which almost every person confesses in daylight , that particular passages of conversation and action have occurred to him in the same order before , whether dreaming or waking , a suspicion that they have been with precisely these persons in precisely this room , and heard precisely this dialogue , at some former hour , they know not when '' .
in this manner they side-step the seemingly hopeless investigation of the greater depths of mystery in which all of us grope continually .
occasionally there are examples of pre-vision which cannot be pushed aside without confessing an unscientific attitude .
rudyard kipling's scorn for the `` jargon '' of psychical research was altered somewhat when he wondered `` how , or why , had i been shown an unreleased roll of my life film '' ? ?
one day when he attended a war memorial ceremony in westminster abbey his view was obstructed by a stout man on his left , his attention turned to the irregular pattern of the rough slab flooring and someone , clasping him by the arm , whispered , `` i want a word with you , please '' .
freud probably contributed more than anyone else to the understanding of dreams , enabling us to recognize their equivalents in our wakeful thoughts .
as `` a matter of fact no such complete solution of the dream has ever been accomplished in any case , , and what is more , every one attempting such solution has found that in most cases there have remained a great many components of the dream the source of which he has been unable to explain nor is the discussion closed on the subject of the mantic or prophetic power of dreams '' .
the basic mystery of dreams , which embraces all the others and challenges us from even the most common typical dream , is in the fact that they are original , visual continuities .
i am sure that nothing within me is capable of composing that life-like sequence , so complete in detail , from the hodge-podge of news pictures i have seen .
skeptics may deny the more startling phenomena of dreams as things they have never personally observed , but failure to wonder at their basic mystery is outright avoidance of routine evidence .
is a dream simply a mental or cerebral movie ? ?
in most cases we recognize certain words , persons , animals or objects .
for instance , the dreamer sees himself seated behind neighbor smith and , with photographic realism , sees smith driving the car ; ;
there is nothing to suggest that the brain can alter past impressions to fit into an original , realistic and unbroken continuity like we experience in dreams .
a `` mental image '' subconsciously impressing us from beneath its language symbols in wakeful thought , or consciously in light sleep , is actually not an image at all but is comprised of realities , viewed not in the concurrent sensory stream , but within the depths of the fourth dimension .
as in the theory of perception , established in psycho-physiology , the eye is recognized as an integral part of the brain .
the opening paragraph of the chapter titled the theory of representative perception , in the book philosophies of science by albert g. ramsperger says , `` passed on to the brain , and there , by some unexplained process , it causes the mind to have a perception '' .
as retinal images are conceded to be an integral function of the brain it seems logical to suppose that the nerves , between the inner brain and the eyes , carry the direct drive for cooperation from the various brain centers -- rather than to theorize on the transmission of an image which is already in required location .
modern physics has developed the theory that all matter consists of minute waves of energy .
so we may conceive the coexistence of the infinite number of universal , apparently momentary states of matter , successive one after another in consciousness , but permanent each on its own basic phase of the progressive frequencies .
space in any form is completely measured by the three dimensions .
it is not through space nor time that the time machine most approved by science fiction must travel for a visit to the permanent prehistoric past , or the ever-existent past-fantasy future .
the body , senses and brain , in common with all matter , have their counterpart on each of a countless number of frequencies .
consciousness is the factor that provides the progressive continuity to sensory impressions .
if the photographically realistic continuity of dreams , however bizarre their combinations , denies that it is purely a composition of the brain , it must be compounded from views of diverse realities , although some of them may never be encountered in what we are pleased to call the real life .
as a matter of fact , the incorrect classification , the result of many weeks of labor by dr. hilprecht , was about to be published by him the following day .
dr. hilprecht was uncertain as to the language used by the ancient priest in his dream .
we may conclude that all six points of information , ostensibly given by the dream priest , could have been furnished by dr. hilprecht's subconscious reasoning .
which theory is more fantastic : 1 .
that the dream was a reality on the infinite progressions of universal , gradient frequencies , across which the modern professor and the priest of ancient nippur met ? ?
no doubt some experiences vanish so completely as to leave no trace on the sleeper's mind .
when we arrive at the events concerned in the vanished majority , they , of course , cannot impress us as anything familiar .
if deja vue is an illusion , then peculiarly , it is a most prevalent mental disturbance affecting even the most level-headed people .
after the preliminary business affair was finished depew arose and delivered the convincing speech that clinched the nomination for roosevelt .
but the famous orator felt more than vague recognition for the scene .
one week before the convention , depew was seated on the porch of a country home on the hudson , gazing at the opposite shore .
so wrote a ten year old student in a letter to his parents from north country school , lake placid , new york .
because the food is selected with thought for its nutritional value , care for its origin , and prepared in a manner that retains the most nutrients , the food does taste good .
situated in a region of some of the loveliest mountain scenery in the country , the school buildings are located amid open fields and farm lands .
from fourteen states and three foreign countries they come to spend the months from mid-september to june .
to him this means caring for the whole child , providing basic nutrition , and a spiritual attitude that lends freedom for the development of the mind .
the concept of good nutrition really began with the garden .
in a climate hostile to agriculture , mr. clark has had to keep alert to the most productive farm techniques .
throughout the adirondack region abandoned farm homes and wild orchards bear ghostly testimony that their owners met defeat .
`` to give up these notions required a revolution in thought '' , mr. clark said in reminiscing about the abrupt changes in ideas he experienced when he began reading `` organic gardening '' and `` modern nutrition '' in a search for help with his problems .
by 1952 he was convinced he would no longer spray .
after reading `` plowman's folly '' by edward h. faulkner , he stopped plowing .
separate pails were kept in the kitchen for coffee grounds and egg shells .
it was applied with a compost shredder made from a converted manure spreader .
soon after the method changed , visitors began asking how he managed to irrigate his soil to keep it looking moist , when in reality , it was the soil treatment alone that accomplished this .
sniffing its sweet smell and letting it fall to show its good crumbly consistency , he pointed to the nearby driveway and said , `` this soil used to be like that hard packed road over there '' .
no chemical fertilizers and poisonous insecticides and fungicides are used '' .
the carrots sometimes don't make it through the winter ; ;
there is never enough corn , peas or strawberries .
a new project planned is the use of bio-dynamic starter .
`` after the soil , the kitchen '' , says mr. clark .
`` adults take a long time to convince and you are thwarted if you try to push '' .
`` you can't make french toast with whole-wheat bread '' , was an early complaint .
homemade bread
then miss lillian colman came from vermont to be kitchen manager .
mr. clark's studies taught him that the only way to conserve the vitamins in the whole grain was prompt use of the flour .
a mill stands in a room off the kitchen .
miss colman pours measures of whole wheat , oats , and soy beans and turns on the motor .
the bread baked from this mixture is light in color and fragrant in aroma .
there is one problem with the bread .
hot , freshly-ground cereal
when the chance came , they first eliminated cold cereal once a week , then gradually converted to hot fresh-ground cereal every day .
occasionally , the children find steamed , whole-wheat grains for cereal which they call `` buckshot '' .
when they leave for vacations they miss the hot cereal .
he never used to like any hot cereal , now that's the only kind he wants .
body-building foods
vegetables are served liberally .
home-made sauerkraut is served once a week .
sometimes sprouted wheat is added to bread and causes the children to remark , `` lillian , did you put nuts in the bread today '' ? ?
the school raises enough poultry , pigs , and beef cattle for most of their needs .
hens are kept on the range and roosters are kept with them for their fertility .
also , salt water fish is on the table once a week .
most other desserts are fruit in some form , fresh fruits once daily at least , sometimes at snack time .
apples come from a farm in vermont where they are not sprayed .
finding sources for these high quality foods is a problem .
following a talk by mr. clark at the new york state natural food associates convention , a man from the audience offered to ship his unsprayed apples to the school from vermont .
miss colman hopes to find suitable shakers so that kelp can be available at the tables .
very few fried foods are used and the use of salt and pepper is discouraged .
pitchers of water merely appear on the tables .
the source is known so there is no necessity to remove insecticide residues .
wholesome snacks , no candy
to solve the problem of the wheat grains spilling on the floor and getting underfoot , a ball of maple syrup boiled to candy consistency was invented to hold the grains .
they learn to like these so well that it isn't surprising to hear that one boy tried the oats he was feeding his horse at chore time .
maple syrup is made by the children in the woods on the school grounds .
candy is not allowed .
nourishing meals
the heavy meal comes in the middle of the day .
homemade of meat , bones and vegetables , it is rich in dissolved minerals and vitamins .
the cost to feed one person is just under one dollar a day .
even before he saw the necessity of growing better food and planning good nutrition , mr. clark felt the school had a good health program .
a vigorous program existed in skiing , skating sports and overnight hiking .
since the change to better nutrition , he feels he can report on improvements in health , though he considers the following statements observations and not scientific proof .
the ruddy complexion of the faces also brings comment .
wires whined as a cold november blast rocked the silver wings , but the engine roar was reassuring to the pilot bundled in the open cockpit .
`` good old iron compass '' ! !
a plume of smoke rose from a central vermont locomotive which idled behind a string of gravel cars , and little figures that were workmen labored to set the ruptured roadbed to rights .
vermont's main railroad line was prostrate .
rain of near cloudburst proportions had fallen for three full days and it was still raining on the morning of friday , november 4 , 1927 , when officials of the post office department's railway mail service realized that their distribution system for vermont had been almost totally destroyed overnight .
the state's railroad system counted miles of broken bridges and missing rights-of-way : it would obviously remain out of commission for weeks .
from burlington , outgoing mail could be ferried across lake champlain to the railroad at port kent , n. y. .
the nearest undisrupted end of track from boston was at concord , n. h. .
the question was `` where to land '' ? ?
burlington aviator john j. burns suggested the parade ground southwest of fort ethan allen , and soon a dozen hastily-summoned national guard pilots were bringing their wide-winged `` jenny '' and dehaviland two-seaters to rest on the frozen sod of the military base .
over in barre the streets had been deep in swirling water , and bridges were crumpled and gone .
the `` barre aviation field '' was set to receive its first aircraft the sunday following the flood .
they had courage but their meager training consisted of weekend hops in good weather , in and out of established airports , and the increasingly cold weather soon raised hob with the water cooled engines of their world war 1 , planes .
they had to act fast , for letters were clogging the terminals .
tall , wiry , dark-haired bob fogg had already racked up one historical first in air mail history .
during the excitement following lindbergh's flight to paris earlier in 1927 , dare devil aviators overnight became legendary heroes .
public-spirited backers staked him to a brand-new airplane , aimed at putting their city and state on the flying map .
a trim green and silver-painted craft only 22-1/2 feet long , the waco was entered to compete in the `` on-to-spokane '' air derby of 1927 .
so with all this experience , bob fogg was a natural choice to receive the first emergency air mail star route contract .
by airline from concord to burlington is a distance of about 150 miles , counting a slight deviation for the stop at either barre or montpelier .
between the unsafe towne field and the long roundabout back road haul that was necessary to gain access to wilson flat , arrangements at the state capital were far from satisfactory .
`` but fogg '' , they countered , `` we can't get over there .
it took a tragedy to bring things to a head .
sent to montpelier by secretary herbert hoover , red cross aide reuben sleight had been killed , and his pilot , lt. franklin wolfe , badly injured .
faced with this situation , postmaster charles f. mckenna of montpelier went with fogg on a burlington trip , and together they scouted the terrain on the heights of berlin .
with a wary eye on the farmer's bull , fred somers of montpelier and mr. st. john marked the field with a red table cloth .
with these aids , and a pair of skiis substituting for wheels on the waco , bob fogg made the first landing on what is now part of the barre-montpelier airport on november 21 , 1927 .
during the second week of operations , fogg received a telegram from the post office department , asking him to `` put on two airplanes and make two flights daily , plus one sunday trip '' .
over the weeks , america's first star route air mail settled into a routine pattern despite the vagaries of weather and the lack of ground facilities and aids to navigation .
always troubled by poor circulation in his feet , he experimented with various combinations of socks and shoes before finally adopting old-style felt farmer's boots with his sheepskin flying boots pulled over them .
the airman's stock answer to `` weren't you cold '' ? ?
as daylight began to show through the frosty windows , fogg would place a call to william a. shaw at the u. s. weather station at northfield , vermont , for temperature and wind-velocity readings .
`` ceilings '' were judged by comparison with known mountain heights and cloud positions .
out at the airport each morning , fogg's skilled mechanic caleb marston would have the waco warmed up and running in the drafty hangar .
) wishing to show that aviation was dependable and here to stay , bob fogg always made a point of taking off each morning on the dot of seven , disregarding rain , snow and sleet in true postal tradition .
sometimes the pilot had to turn back if fully blocked by fog , but 85% of his trips were completed .
often , threading through the overcast , he was forced to fly close to the ground by a low ceiling , skimming above the winooski or the white river along the line of the broken railroad .
the dependable wright engine was never stopped on these trips .
sometimes , on a return trip , the aviator would `` go upstairs '' high over the clouds .
bob fogg didn't have today's advantages of instrument flight and ground control approach systems .
usually back in concord by noon , there was just time to get partially thawed out , refuel , and grab a bit of mrs. fogg's hot broth before starting the second trip .
the flyer had his share of near-misses .
once the soldiers from the barracks had to hold the ship from blowing away while fogg revved the engine and got the tail up .
tracks in the snow showed the plane was airborne in less than a hundred feet .
are you retiring now ? ?
how did i get to be sixty-five so fast ? ?
yes , retirement seems to creep upon you suddenly .
we always thought we would die with our boots on .
compulsory retirement at sixty-five looms on our horizon .
suddenly , one day , up it pops ! !
so , now what ? ?
you've thought about it before in a hazy sort of way .
it never seemed real ; ;
only to the other fellow .
here it is ! !
what am i going to do ? ?
a great many retired people are the so-called white collar workers .
if so , you are of the old school .
everything must balance to the last penny .
you never are late for work and seldom absent .
it is the way you were taught and your way of life .
your stock in trade ; ;
however , the last few years of your life , things seem to be changing .
you realize you are getting in the old fogy class .
what's happened ? ?
now , looming on the horizon are such things as estimated totals , calculated risks and i.b.m. machines .
all sorts of plans come to life .
yes sir ! !
when a plan burst its seams , hasty conferences supply the necessary patch , and life goes merrily on .
the new way of life ! !
let this generation have theirs .
well , to get back to the problem of retirement .
some have plenty of money -- some have very little money .
some have lovely homes -- some live in small apartments .
some have serenity of mind , the ability to accept what they have , and make the most of it ( a wonderful gift to have , believe me ) -- some see only darkness , the bitter side of everything .
you've got to learn to live with it .
the question is `` how are you going to live with it '' ? ?
yes ! !
but , if you do , your life will be just one thing -- unhappiness -- complete and unabridged .
make up your mind to pool your resources and get the most out of your remaining years of life .
you've got to do something .
believe me ! !
find out what you like to do most and really give it a whirl .
maybe you will surprise yourself .
we are not all great artists .
maybe you are not that gifted either , but how about puttering around with the old paints ? ?
anyway , i'll bet you have a lot of fun .
does making your own clothes or even doll clothes , interest you ? ?
if you do , go to it .
some women can sit and sew , crochet , tat or knit by the hour , and look calm and relaxed and turn out beautiful work .
when you see a needle in my hands you will know the family buttons have fallen off and i have to sew them back on , or get out the safety pins .
not for me , but perhaps just the thing for you .
how's about mosaic tile , ceramics or similar arts and crafts ? ?
how about the art of cooking ? ?
there is always an open market for this sort of delicacy , in spite of low calorie diets , cottage cheese and hands-off-all-sweets to the contrary .
some make beautiful chairs , cabinets , chests , doll houses , etc. .
outside of cutting your fingers , maybe you would come up with nothing at all , but then again , you might turn out some dandy little gadgets .
they love to dust , scrub , polish , wax floors , move the furniture around from place to place , take down the curtains , put up new ones and have themselves a real ball .
it certainly isn't mine .
perhaps you would like to become a writer .
will it be short stories , fiction , nonfiction , biography , poetry , children's stories , or even a book if you are really ambitious ? ?
if you do decide to write , you will soon become acquainted with rejection slips and dejection .
this is just being a normal writer .
few new writers have their first story accepted , so they tell me .
then there's always hobbies , collecting stamps , coins , timetables , salt and pepper shakers , elephants , dogs , dolls , shells , or shall we just say collecting anything your heart desires ? ?
you say , `` but it costs a lot of money to have a hobby .
true ! !
how about a rock collection , or a collection of leaves from different trees or shrubs and in different colors ? ?
they are many and varied .
it's getting interested in something that counts .
so far , the covers have never been off the boxes .
so in closing , fellow retired members , i advise you to make the most of each day , enjoy each one to the n'th degree .
keep occupied to the point you are not bored with life and you will truly find these final days and years of your lives to be sunshine sweet .
to one and all -- good days ahead ! !
the mature person is creative .
when we turn to noah webster we find him helpful as usual .
we are creative , it seems , when we produce something which has not previously existed .
all living creatures from the lowest form of insect or animal life evidence the power of creativity , if it is only to reproduce a form like their own .
an animal , bird or insect creates either a burrow , or nest or hive in unending sameness according to specie .
this gives him the power to form in his mind new image combinations of old memories , ideas and experiences and to project them outside of himself into his environment in new and ever-changing forms .
in our own time we have seen the most fantastic imagery of a jules verne come into actuality .
in fact all of our civilized world is the resultant of man's projection of his imagination over the past 60 centuries or more .
not only can man project his imagination out into his environment in concrete forms , but even more importantly , he can turn it inward to help create new and better forms of himself .
we know that actors can learn to portray a wide variety of character roles .
we must realize with prof. charles morris in his the open self that `` man is the being that can continually remake himself , the artisan that is himself the material for his own creation '' .
is not the present world crisis a race between things we have created which can now destroy us and between populations of sufficient wisdom and character to forestall the tragedy .
sir julian huxley in his book uniqueness of man makes the novel point that just as man is unique in being the only animal which requires a long period of infancy and childhood under family protection , so is he the only animal who has a long period after the decline of his procreativity .
that nowadays all honeymooners are thoroughly familiar with the best sex-manuals and know enough from talk with friends and personal experimentation to take all the anxiety and hazards out of the situation .
joking and talking may be freer and easier , but the important factual information is still lacking for far too many newly-married men and women .
privacy must be highly assured both in time and place .
if the wedding party lasted late , and the travel schedule means there are only a few hours before resuming the trip or making an early start , the husband may forestall tensions and uncertainties by confiding to his bride that lying in each other's arms will be bliss enough for these few hours .
first intercourse for the bride brings with it the various problems connected with virginity and the hymen .
ignorance on this point has caused a great deal of needless anxiety , misunderstanding and suspicion .
( hymen , in fact , is the greek word for membrane .
often it is thin and fragile and gives way readily to the male organ at the first attempt at intercourse .
it is also important to realize that many girls are born without a hymen or at most only a tiny trace of one ; ;
but there is a basis in fact for the exaggerations of the folk-lore beliefs .
more rarely , the hymen is so sturdy that it does not yield to penetration .
these cases , for all their rarity , are so dramatic that friends and relations repeat the story until the general population may get an entirely false notion of how often the hymen is a serious problem to newly-weds .
obviously , the bridal pair has many adjustments to make to their new situation .
gynecologists and marriage manuals began to advise that the bride should consult a physician before marriage .
as a natural outgrowth of this approach it was often suggested that the doctor should complete the preparation for painless intercourse by dilating the vagina .
the vagina is an organ capable of remarkable contraction and dilation .
the intricate system of muscles that manage the contraction and dilatation of the vagina are partly under voluntary control .
that is , when first penetration takes place , the pressure and pain signals may involuntarily cause all the vaginal muscles to contract in an effort to bar the intrusion and prevent further pain .
since it is a purely professional situation , none of the pain is associated with love-making or the beloved .
in this process the vaginal muscles come under better conscious control by the girl .
apart from the standard problem of controlling the vaginal muscles , other serious barriers may exist that need special gynecological treatment .
when no medical problems exist , the newly married couple generally prefer to cope with the adjustments of their new relationship by themselves .
folk-lore , superstition and remembered passages from erotic literature can create physical and emotional problems if blindly taken as scientific facts and useful hints .
the long , unhurried approach and the deliberate prolongation of fore-play work on several levels .
extensive observations by physicians during vaginal examinations have established the fact that a single finger inserted along the anterior wall ( the top line of the vagina as the woman lies on her back ) may cause a great deal of distress in a virgin .
and in fact without any difficulty if the pressure is kept downward at all times .
the husband and wife should start with this anatomical information clearly in mind .
at least until repeated intercourse has dilated it and pain is no longer a possible threat against the full pleasure of love-making .
locker-room talk often stresses the idea that a man is doing the girl a favor if he is forceful and ruthless during the first penetration .
such talk is seriously in error .
the insistent , forceful penetration may tear and inflame the vaginal walls as well as do excessive damage to the hymen .
serious attention must also be given to the husband's problems in the honeymoon situation .
the emotional stimulation may be so great that he may experience a premature climax .
or the frequent need to check and discipline himself to the wisest pace of the consummation can put him off stride and make it impossible for him to be continuously ready for penetration over a long period .
the best course is to recover his physical excitement by a change of pace that makes him ardent again .
he can take security from the fact that the progress he has made by his gentle approach will not be lost .
a final word .
too many new things are happening for it to be a complete erotic fulfillment .
both man and wife should be aware of the fact that a lack of climax , and even the absence of the anticipated keen pleasure are not a sign that the wife may be cold or frigid .
writing in a large volume on the nude in painting and sculptures , titled the nude : a study in ideal form , kenneth clark declares : `` the human body , as a nucleus , is rich in associations .
perhaps this is a clue to the amazing variety and power of reactions , attitudes , and emotions precipitated by the nude form .
differences were related to social , economic , and educational backgrounds .
such understanding helps to explain why one matron celebrating thirty-five years of married life could declare with some pride that her husband had `` never seen her entirely naked '' , while another woman , boasting an equal number of years of married life , is proud of having `` shared the nudist way of life -- the really free , natural nude life -- for most of that period '' .
the indignant crusader sees the nude or semi-nude human form as `` lewd and pornographic , a threat and danger '' to all the young , or good , or religious , or moral persons .
one is always a little surprised to bump into such individual distinctions when it is unexpected .
in tradition and in poetry , the marriage bed is a place of unity and harmony .
at its most ecstatic moments , husband and wife are elevated far above worldly cares .
this is the ideal .
instead one partner or the other dominates the sexual relationship .
but today there are signs that these roles are being reversed .
it is she who decides the time , the place , the surroundings , and the frequency of the sexual act .
the whole act is tailored to her pleasure , and not to theirs .
but there is little doubt that in many marriages the wife is boss of the marital bed .
yet even in these marriages , psychologists say , wives are asserting themselves more strongly .
to many experts , this trend was inevitable .
our society has `` emancipated '' the woman , giving her new independence and new authority .
`` the sexual relationship does not exist in a vacuum '' , declares dr. mary steichen calderone , medical director of the planned parenthood federation of america and author of the recent book , release from sexual tensions .
a world in which wives have taken a more active role is likely to produce sexual relationships in which wives are more self-assertive , too '' .
it can , in fact , wreck a marriage .
and she begins to regard him as savage , bestial and unworthy .
he is a target of ridicule to his wife , and often -- since private affairs rarely remain private -- to the outside world as well .
this opinion is supported by one of the nation's leading psychiatrists , dr. maurice e. linden , director of the mental health division of the philadelphia department of public health .
in one extreme case , cited by a pittsburgh psychologist , an office worker's wife refused to have sexual relations with her husband unless he bought her the luxuries she demanded .
caught at last , he was sentenced to prison .
more typical is the case of a suburban long island housewife described by a marriage counselor .
to please her , her husband assumed some of the domestic chores .
one wife , described by a new york psychologist , so dominated her husband that she actually placed their sexual relationship on a schedule , writing it down right between the weekly pta meetings and the thursday-night neighborhood card parties .
after every money argument , she rebuffed her husband's overtures until the matter was settled in her favor .
the wife is likely to be young , sophisticated , smart as a whip -- often a girl who has sacrificed a promising career for marriage .
the husband is usually a well-educated professional , preoccupied with his job -- often an organization man whose motto for getting ahead is : `` don't rock the boat '' .
hemmed in on the job and unable to assert himself , he uses the sex act so he can be supreme in at least one area .
some psychologists , in fact , suggest that career-bound husbands often are more to blame for topsy-turvy marriages than their wives .
naturally no woman can ever completely monopolize the sexual initiative .
generally , however , in such marriages as those cited , the husband is at his wife's mercy .
no one seriously contends , of course , that the domineering wife is , sexually speaking , a new character in our world .
there is no evidence that these milquetoasts became suddenly emboldened when they crossed the threshhold of the master bedroom .
they aren't `` frigid '' and they aren't homosexual ; ;
they like to be dominated .
asked why , he replied primly : `` because that's no activity for a gentleman '' .
society here and abroad has been built around the dominating male -- even the bible appears to endorse the concept .
and the dependent wife seldom questioned his judgment about anything , including the marriage bed .
in those days , a wife had mighty few rights in the domestic sphere and even fewer in the sexual sphere .
wives of the period shamefacedly thought of themselves as `` used '' by their husbands -- and , history indicates , they often quite literally were .
when did women begin to assert themselves sexually ? ?
virtually everyone agrees , however , that the trend toward female sexual aggressiveness was tremendously accelerated with the postwar rush to the suburbs .
circumstances gave her almost undisputed sway over child-rearing , money-handling and home maintenance .
she liked this taste of authority and independence , and , with darkness , was not likely to give it up .
a woman who dominates other family affairs will dominate the sexual relationship as well '' .
marriage manuals and women's magazine articles began to stress the importance of the female climax .
in fact , the noted psychologist and sex researcher , dr. albert ellis , has declared flatly that women are `` sexually superior '' to men .
not surprisingly , dr. ellis says , some recently enlightened wives are out to claim these capabilities .
an aggressive woman wants a man to demand , not knuckle under .
often she fails to gain sexual satisfaction '' .
but her personality was such that each affair lasted only until that lover , too , had been conquered and reduced to passivity .
in some cases , however , domination of the sex act by one partner can be temporary , triggered by a passing but urgent emotional need .
if his on-the-job problems work out , he may return to his old pattern .
on the other hand , a husband who always has been vigorous and assertive may suddenly become passive -- asking , psychologists say , for reassurance that his wife still finds him desirable .
in any case , dr. calderone remarks , such problems are a couple's own affair , and can't always be measured by a general yardstick .
`` the important point is that both be satisfied with the adjustment '' .
and just as domination today often begins with the wife , so the cure generally must lie with the husband .
he must begin , paradoxically , by becoming more selfish .
too many husbands , dr. schillinger continues , worry about `` how well they're doing '' , and fear that their success depends on some trick or technique of sexual play .
the new york d.a. gave her another , the golden girl of cafe society .
and houston police have the final say in the matter since she died there on september 20 , 1960 , `` diane harris graham , 30 , d.o.a. , circumstances -- unusual '' .
she was still in the play for pay business when she died , a top trollop who had given the world's oldest profession one of its rare flashes of glamour .
her neighbors in the expensive houston apartment building told reporters that the ash-blonde beauty had talked at times about her past as `` the golden girl of the mickey jelke trial '' .
( jelke later served 21 months when he was found guilty of masterminding a ring of high-priced call girls .
diane was needed as a material witness in the case and new york police searched three continents before they found her in their own back yard -- in a swank hotel , of course .
it was when she was seized as a material witness that she got the designation she liked best .
`` this girl is the golden girl of cafe society .
in the spring and early summer of that year she met a wealthy foreign tycoon who took her to france , where she later met a very wealthy man and toured all europe with him .
he was the official procurer for king farouk , now in exile .
she lied in order to get it .
she has been acting as a prostitute .
diane sobbingly denied this to the court .
i never gave that boy a cent .
during the course of the trial , jelke backed up part of that statement .
but she seemed to have underestimated the number of her `` boy friends '' .
as she told it , `` he's a rich boy friend , an old guy about 60 '' .
she had talked her `` boy friend '' into sending her to new york to take a screen test .
she quickly moved into cafe society , possibly easing her conscience by talking constantly of her desire to be in show business .
an ex-fighter was introduced to her in a bar as `` mr. warfield , the famous producer '' .
`` i'd love to audition for you '' , she gushed .
she thought she had great possibilities in the ballet and wanted to show the eminent producer how well she could dance .
i'd like to see you dance nude '' .
diane loved to dance in the nude , something she was to demonstrate time and again .
even among the fast set in which she was moving , her method for keeping an escort from departing too early was unique .
more often than not he would bow to the inevitable .
one of the blonde's yearnings that he satisfied was for travel .
in an anonymous interview with a french newspaper the financier told of spending several months with her .
the greek evidently fell for her , `` monsieur x '' recounted , and to clinch what he thought was an affair in the making he gave her 100,000 francs ( about $300 ) and led her to the roulette tables .
and in short order the croupier had pushed several million francs her way .
no one ever learned what happened to the greek .
she teamed up with another beauty , whose name has been lost to history , and commenced with some fiddling that would have made nero envious .
it was a rugged finish for what must have been a very interesting night .
`` there had been a threesome at the party in the suite's bedroom : miss harrington ( this was diane's choice for a roman name ) , another woman who has figured in other very interesting events and one of your well-known american actors .
the hotel staff , as well as residents of the excelsior , told us they saw that both ladies were bleeding from scratches as they were seen fleeing down the hall .
they were asked to leave the hotel .
the girls , after dressing , were indignant .
`` we are americans '' .
with the ambassador as headquarters , she continued to promote good will abroad .
by this time diane was a beguiling lass of 19 and still seeking her place in the world .
a close friend of hers in the roman days described it this way :
pulley bey spoke no english .
she had a hard time making him understand that it was farouk she wished to meet .
it seemed as though she were always auditioning .
pulley had set her up at the semiramis hotel , but she grew impatient waiting for a royal reception and moved to a luxurious apartment to which the royal pimp had no key .
tewfik badrawi , mohammed gaafer and numerous other wealthy members of cairo society enjoyed her company .
the roof was about ready to fall in on diane's little world , but it took nothing less than the egyptian revolution to bring it down .
they also called upon diane with a request for a look at her passport .
officials provided a temporary passport , good only for return to the united states .
held as a material witness in the compulsory prostitution trial of mickey jelke , the comely courtesan was unable to raise bail and was committed to the women's house of detention , a terribly overcrowded prison .
newspapers at the time noted that the move indicated that she was co-operating with the district attorney .
it was no longer fashionable to be seen with fabulous `` lady harrington '' .
she later divorced graham , who is believed to have moved to bolivia .
last may , they said , she admitted being a prostitute .
it was september 20 , 1960 , in a lavishly decorated apartment littered with liquor bottles .
mcclellan , who had once lost his medical license temporarily on a charge of drug addiction , was with her when she died .
when he realized she was dead , he called two lawyers and then the police .
the blonde's nude body was in bed , a green sheet and a pink blanket covered her .
an autopsy disclosed a large amount of morphine in diane's body .
`` i think that maybe she wanted it this way '' , a vice squad cop said .
she was on the junk , and they slide fast when that happens .
i am a carpet salesman .
we cater mostly to nice people in the $5-8,000 annual income bracket and we run a string of snazzy , neon-lit , chromium-plated suburban stores .
there is only one trouble with this big , beautiful dream .
people come to me with confidence .
but i knowingly abuse their confidence .
`` doctor '' lee asked her to lie down on a bed and remove her shoes .
she had -- he informed her -- kidney trouble , liver trouble , and a severe female disorder .
) he knew just the thing for her -- a treatment from his `` cosmic light ozone generator '' machine .
yes , the ozone from his machine would cure practically everything , he assured her .
the human body -- he pointed out , for example -- required 33 units of blue light .
continuing glibly in this vein , he paused to comfort her :
this machine will cure your cancer-ridden body '' .
mrs. shaefer practically shrieked .
`` you have it , all right .
why , i once used this machine to cure a woman with 97 pounds of cancer in her body '' .
when she said that she didn't have the money , he said that she could come in for treatment with his office model until she was ready to buy one .
lee renewed his pressure on mrs. shaefer to buy his machine when she visited him the next day .
he then sold her some capsules that he asserted would take care of the tumors and cysts until she could collect the money for buying his machine .
leaving lee's office , mrs. shaefer hurried over to her family physician , who treated her for burned tissue .
mrs. shaefer never got around to joining the thousand or so people who paid lee some $30,000 for his ozone machines .
and she felt amply rewarded for her suffering when the evidence of lee's quack shenanigans , gathered by the tape recorder under her friend's clothing , proved adequate in court for convicting franklin d. lee .
the sentence : 360 days' confinement in the county jail .
by no means .
the machine quack makes his rube goldberg devices out of odds and ends of metals , wires , and radio parts .
he milks the latest scientific advances , translating them into his own special buck rogers vocabulary to huckster his fake machines as a cure-all for everything from hay fever to sexual impotence and cancer .
he may call himself a anaprapath , a physiotherapist , an electrotherapist , a naturopath , a sanipractor , a medical cultist , a masseur , a `` doctor '' -- or what have you .
the medical device pirate of today , of course , is a far more sophisticated operator than his predecessor of yesteryear -- the gallus-snapping hawker of snake oil and other patent medicines .
according to the food and drug administration ( fda ) , `` doctor '' ghadiali , dr. albert abrams and his clique , and dr. wilhelm reich -- to name three notorious device quacks -- succeeded , respectively , in distributing 10,000 , 5000 , and 2000 fake health machines .
look at the sums paid by two device quack victims in cleveland .
multiply these figures by the millions of people known to be conned by medical pirates annually .
that's why the fda , the american medical association ( ama ) , and the national better business bureau ( bbb ) have estimated the toll of mechanical quackery to be a substantial portion of the $610 million or so paid to medical charlatans annually .
similarly , the american cancer society ( acs ) , the arthritis and rheumatism foundation , and the bbb have each stated lately that medical quackery is at a new high .
authorities hesitate to quote exact figures , however , believing that any sum they come up with is only a surface manifestation -- turned up by their inevitably limited policing -- of the real loot of the medical racketeer .
the economic toll that the device quack extracts is important , of course .
by preying on the sick , by playing callously on the hopes of the desperate , by causing the sufferer to delay proper medical care , these medical ghouls create pain and misery by their very activity .
sarah gross found that the treatments given her for a nervous ailment by the masseur were not helping her .
she suffered a nervous breakdown and had to be institutionalized .
mr. a has recovered , but he is , justifiably , a bitter man .
`` neither me nor my wife were helped by that chiropractor's treatments '' .
after his pains got worse , tom decided to see a real doctor , from whom he learned he was suffering from cancer of the lung .
but he's a welfare case now -- a human wreck -- thanks to this modern witch doctor .
in such diseases as cancer , tuberculosis , and heart disease , early diagnosis and treatment are so vital that the waste of time by the patient with doctor fraud's cure-all gadget can prove fatal .
for instance :
`` hang this around your neck or attach it to other parts of your anatomy , and its rays will cure any disease you have '' , said the company .
doris hull , suffering from tuberculosis , was taken by her husband to see otis g. carroll , a sanipractor -- a licensed drugless healer -- in spokane .
his prescription : hot and cold compresses to increase her absorption of water .
inevitably , mrs. hull died of starvation and tuberculosis , weighing 60 pounds .
( small wonder a spokane jury awarded the husband $35,823 for his wife's death .
in california , a few years ago , a ghoul by the name of h. f. bell sold electric blankets as a cure for cancer .
when authorities convicted him of practicing medicine without a license ( he got off with a suspended sentence of three years because of his advanced age of 77 ) , one of his victims was not around to testify : he was dead of cancer .
`` unfortunately '' , says chief postal inspector david h. stephens , who has prosecuted many device quacks , `` the ghouls who trade on the hopes of the desperately ill often cannot be successfully prosecuted because the patients who are the chief witnesses die before the case is called up in court '' .
have no doubt about it .
the evidence shows that fake therapeutic machines , substituted for valid medical cures , have hastened the deaths of thousands .
authorities say that oldsters are a prime target .
people who have not been able to get relief from regular medical doctors are especially apt to be taken in by quacks '' .
they are often ignorant as well as underprivileged .
his grades had gone steadily downhill , and he had stopped bringing friends and classmates home from school .
then one day dick's classmate jimmy , from next door , let the cat out of the bag .
when richard's parents told him they wanted to take him to an orthodontist -- a dentist who specializes in realigning teeth and jaws -- their young son was interested .
richard stewart is no special case .
what do parents need to know about those `` years of the braces '' in order not to waste a child's time and their money ? ?
why and when should tooth-straightening be undertaken ? ?
tooth fit explained
malocclusion , or a bad fit , is what parents need to look out for .
a chin too prominent in relation to the rest of the face , a thrusting forward of the lower front teeth , an overdeveloped lower jawbone , and an underdeveloped upper jaw indicate the opposite type of malocclusion .
a child probably requires some form of treatment if he has any of the following conditions :
crooked , overlapping , twisted , or widely spaced teeth .
upper teeth completely covering the lowers when the back teeth close .
second teeth that have come in before the first ones have fallen out , making a double row .
however , this does not mean that a child's teeth or jaws must necessarily resemble those of someone in his family .
it's perfectly normal for babies to suck their thumbs , and no mother need worry if a child continues this habit until he is two or three years old .
but after that , if thumb-sucking pressure is frequent , it will have an effect .
if a child loses a molar at the age of two , the adjoining teeth may shift toward the empty space , thus narrowing the place intended for the permanent ones and producing a jumble .
correction can save teeth
some such youngsters rarely smile , or they try to speak with the mouth closed .
yet from the dentist's point of view , bad-fitting teeth should be corrected for physical reasons .
this serious condition , popularly known as pyorrhea , is one of the chief causes of tooth loss in adults .
`` for these and other reasons '' , says dr. brodie , `` orthodontics can prolong the life of teeth '' .
because of these chewing troubles , a child may avoid certain foods he needs for adequate nutrition .
the when and how of straightening
in the period from 10 to 14 the permanent set of teeth is usually completed , yet the continuing growth of bony tissue makes moving badly placed teeth comparatively easy .
they are not anchored directly to the bone .
what can 10-year-old susan expect when she enters the orthodontist's office ? ?
if he decides to proceed , he will custom-make for susie an appliance consisting of bands , plastic plates , fine wires , and tiny springs .
as the tooth moves , bone cells on the pressure side of it will dissolve , and new ones will form on the side from which the tooth has moved .
`` if teeth are moved too rapidly , serious injury can be done to their roots as well as to the surrounding bone holding them in place '' , explains dr. brodie .
during the first few days of wearing the appliance and immediately following each adjustment , susan may have a slight discomfort or soreness , but after a short time this will disappear .
when in place , a well-cemented band actually protects the part of the tooth that is covered .
during these visits the dentist will adjust the braces to increase the pressure on her teeth .
susie's teeth have now been guided into a desirable new position .
usually this is a thin band of wire attached to the molars and stretching across the teeth .
then comes the time when the last wire is removed and susie walks out a healthier and more attractive girl than when she first went to the orthodontist .
straightening one tooth that has come in wrong may take only a few months .
an added complication such as a malformed jaw may take two or three years to correct .
the charge for a complete full-banded job differs in various parts of the country .
an average national figure for two to three years of treatment would be $650 to $1,000 .
to become an orthodontist , a man must first be licensed by his state as a dentist , then he must spend at least two years in additional training to acquire a license as a specialist .
`` fees are about half to a third of what they were 25 years ago '' .
people today are aware of the value of orthodontics , and as a result there are more practitioners in the field .
in many cities in the united states clinics associated with dental schools will take patients at a nominal fee .
research helps families
dr. brodie has 30-year records of head growth , started 20 minutes after children's births .
now we know that family characteristics do affect tooth formation to a large extent '' , he says .
this knowledge both modifies and dictates diagnosis and treatment .
in the past an orthodontist might have tried , over four or five years , to straighten and fit the boy's large teeth into a jaw that , despite some growth , would never accommodate them .
in other cases , in view of present-day knowledge of head growth , orthodontists will recommend waiting four or five years before treatment .
`` nature often takes care of the problem '' , says dr. brodie .
that is why dr. brodie asks parents not to insist , against their dentist's advice , that their child have orthodontic work done too early .
let the orthodontist decide the proper time to start treatment '' , he urges .
plastics are easier to handle than the vulcanized rubber formerly used , and they save time and money .
prevention is best
`` after your child's baby teeth are all in -- usually at the age of two and one half to three -- it's time for that first dental appointment '' , dr. brodie advises .
to help prevent orthodontic problems from arising , your dentist can do these things :
if a child does lose his first teeth prematurely because of decay -- and if no preventive steps are taken -- the other teeth may shift out of position , become overcrowded and malformed .
from time to time the medium mentions other people `` around him '' , who were `` on the other side '' , and reports what they are saying .
as the hour progresses , the sensitive seems to probe more deeply and to make more personal and specific statements .
another medium , another sitter , would produce a somewhat different content , but in general it would probably sound much like the foregoing reading .
not all , as a matter of fact , consider themselves `` mediums '' in the sense of receiving messages from the deceased .
however that may be , people are known to go to mediums for diverse reasons .
they may , of course , be curiosity seekers -- or they may just be interested in the phenomenon of mediumship .
what we have here is in some ways more like an ordinary conversation .
many a sitter ( in a personal sitting ) has been amazed to realize that the medium was describing very vividly his state of mind .
it had been latent , unspecified , semi-conscious and only partly realized -- until she described it to him ! !
however , in the next visit that the researcher made to the medium , he did not receive a personal reading .
for this was to be a `` proxy sitting '' .
dr. karlis osis , director of research at the parapsychology foundation , described the basis for the experiment in a tomorrow article , ( `` new research on survival after death '' , spring 1958 ) .
the possibility has to be ruled out that the medium's esp may tap the memory of the sitter , and to do this , the two central characters in this drama must be separated .
if the latter knows nothing about the absent sitter except his name ( given by the experimenter ) , he cannot possibly give any clues , conscious or unconscious , far less ask leading questions .
sometimes in these experiments `` appointment sittings '' are used .
in this case the proxy sitter will know only the name of the communicator , nothing else .
as always , a tape recording or detailed notes are made , and a typescript of this is sent to the absent sitter .
it is now harder to assume telepathy as a basis for the statements -- though research still does not know how far afield esp can range .
here again laboratory approaches are being evolved , for it is recognized how `` elastic '' these readings can be , how they can apply to many people , and are often stated in general terms all too easily applied to any individual's own case .
an interested sitter may think the sensitive has made a `` hit '' , describing something accurately for him , but can he really be sure that another sitter , hearing the same statement , would not apply it subjectively to his own circumstances ? ?
`` a journey '' , `` a little white house '' , `` a change of outlook '' , can apply to many people .
one sitter may think `` a leather couch '' identifies a reading as surely directed to him ; ;
to get around this quite difficult corner , there is one first aid to objectiveness : prevent the distant sitter from knowing which reading was for him .
or am i taking something that could really apply to almost anybody , and forgetting that many other people probably have had a similar experience '' ? ?
`` he had four children , two sets of twins .
part of his house had been moved to the other side of the road .
methods have been developed of assigning `` weights '' to statements ; ;
that fewer women are named miranda than elizabeth ; ;
so each reading can be given a weight and each reading a score by adding up these weights .
various categories have been explored to find out about these `` empirical probabilities '' against which to measure the readings .
it is very important indeed , in the field of extra-sensory perception and its relation to the survival hypothesis , to know whether the statements are actually only those which any intuitive person might venture and an eager sitter attach to himself .
that is one thing the experiments are designed to find out .
he is required to mark every item and to indicate which reading he feels is actually his .
that is , if he marks as most correct a reading not meant for him , the total experimental score falls .
and there are some positive results , though the final findings will not be known for a long time -- and then further research can be formulated .
does she often speak of locations , of cause of death ? ?
it is possible to find out in which categories most of her correct statements fall , and where she makes most of her `` hits '' .
mediumistic impressions are evidently of all sorts and seem to involve all the senses .
or perhaps she hears words or sounds : `` there's such a noise of loud machinery '' , or `` i hear a child crying '' , or `` he says we're all here and glad to see you '' .
the sensitive often seems to smell definite odors , too , or subjectively feels emotions .
if pressed by the sitter for more detail , she may be able to bring the picture more into focus and see more sharply , almost as if she were physically going closer .
perhaps this is not so extraordinary after all .
of course , there is an element of training here : these gifted people , by concentration , study , guidance , have learned to develop their power .
nor does a medium automatically know how to interpret her imagery .
it is apparently by symbols that the unconscious speaks to the conscious , and the medium has to translate these into meaning .
during one reading an image appeared of a prisoner in irons .
taken with other details it could have referred to a state of mental or spiritual confinement .
though they are often heard clairaudiently , as if a voice were speaking them , in other cases they are apprehended visually as symbols : a slope to signify the name `` hill '' , for instance .
farming is confining .
livestock must be tended every day , routinely .
even if there are no livestock , the farmer cannot leave the farm for long periods , particularly during the growing season .
he cannot leave the farm to take work in another locality on short notice ; ;
hard physical labor and undesirable hours are a part of life .
frequently he must work long hours in the hot sun or cold rain .
it may not be profitable for a part-time farmer to own the labor-saving machinery that a full-time farmer can invest in profitably .
drought , hail , disease , and insects take their toll of crops .
returns for money and labor invested may be small even in a good year .
land within commuting distance of a growing city is usually high in price , higher if it has subdivision possibilities .
if the farm is in an industrial area where wages are high , farm labor costs will also be high .
it will frequently be uneconomical for him to own the most up-to-date equipment .
there will be losses caused by emergencies that arise while he is away at his off-farm job .
this may be true whether the farm is owned or rented .
if it is owned , taxes must be paid , and if the place is not free of mortgage , there will be interest and payments on the principal to take care of .
a farm provides a wholesome and healthful environment for children .
the children can do chores adapted to their age and ability .
part-time farming gives a measure of security if the regular job is lost , provided the farm is owned free of debt and furnishes enough income to meet fixed expenses and minimum living costs .
it is particularly suitable for those who need to work or exercise out of doors for their health .
the savings are not as great , however , as is sometime supposed .
where schools , fire and police protection , and similar municipal services are of equal quality in city and country , real estate taxes are usually about the same .
some persons consider the work on a farm recreational .
land , labor , and equipment needed
it depends on the kind and the scale of the farming operation .
specific requirements for each of various types of enterprises are discussed on pages 8 to 14 .
three quarters to 1 acre of good land is enough for raising fruits and vegetables for home use , and for a small flock of chickens , a cow , and two pigs .
if you want to raise feed or carry out some enterprise on a larger scale , you'll need more land .
but consider also how much you and your family can keep up along with your other work .
some part-time farmers buy more land than they need in anticipation of suburban development .
sometimes a desired acreage is offered only as part of a larger tract .
labor
as a rule , part-time farmers hire little help .
list the number of hours the family can be expected to work each month .
do not include all your spare time or all your family's spare time -- only what you are willing to use for farm work .
if you are going to produce for home use only , you will need only hand tools .
for larger plantings , you'll need some kind of power for plowing , harrowing , disking , and cultivating .
these tractors are not entirely satisfactory for plowing , particularly on heavier soils , so you may still want to hire someone to do the plowing .
if you are going to farm for extra cash income on a part-time basis you must keep in mind the needed machinery investments when you choose among farm enterprises .
if an expensive and specialized piece of machinery is needed -- such as a spray rig , a combine , or a binder -- it is better to pay someone with a machine to do the work .
before you look for a farm you'll need to know ( 1 ) the kind and scale of farming you want to undertake ; ;
information on pages 8 to 14 may help you in deciding on the kind and scale of your farming venture .
discussed below are some of the main things to look for when you select a part-time farm .
nearness to work .
choose a location within easy commuting distance of both the regular job and other employment opportunities .
the presence of alternative job opportunities also will make the place easier to sell if that should become desirable .
nearness to markets .
if you grow anything to sell you will need markets nearby .
kind of neighborhood .
look for a farm in a neighborhood of well-kept homes .
few rural areas are protected by zoning .
facilities in the area .
check on the schools in the area , the quality of teaching , and the provision for transportation to and from them .
if these facilities are not at the door , getting them may cost more than you expect .
you cannot get along without an adequate supply of pure water .
a pond may provide adequate water for livestock and garden .
the following amounts of water are needed per day for livestock and domestic uses .
is the land suited to the crops you intend to raise ? ?
soil type , drainage , or degree of slope can make the difference between good crops and poor ones .
the house
how much will it cost to do any necessary modernizing and redecorating ? ?
buying a farm
its worth as a place to live .
the possibilities of selling the property later on for suburban subdivision .
take into account the difference in city and county taxes , insurance rates , utility rates , and the cost of travel to work .
to do this , set up a plan on paper for operating the farm .
estimate the value of the produce at normal prices .
to find estimated net farm income , subtract estimated annual farming expenditures from probable gross income from farming .
also count as an expense a charge for the labor to be contributed by the family .
otherwise , you may pay too much for the farm and get nothing for your labor .
everyone with a personal or group tragedy to relate had to be given his day in court as in some vast collective dirge .
one who had been a boy in auschwitz had to tell how children had been selected by height for the gas chambers .
public relations strategists everywhere , watching the reaction of the german press , the liberal press , the lunatic-fringe press , listening to their neighbors , studying interviews with men and women on the street , cried out : too much , too much -- the mind of the audience is becoming dulled , the horrors are losing their effect .
most of this testimony may have been legally admissible as bearing on the corpus delicti of the total nazi crime but seemed subject to question when not tied to the part in it of the defendant's department of jewish affairs .
would not the emotional catharsis eventually brought on by this awfulness have a calming , if not exhausting , effect likely to improve his client's chances ? ?
interruptions came largely from the bench , which numerous times rebuked the attorney general for letting his witnesses run on , though it , too , made no serious effort to choke off the flow .
in each of the last , the trial marked the beginning of a new course : in moscow the liquidation of the old bolsheviks and the tightening of stalin's dictatorship ; ;
these trials were properly termed `` political cases '' in that the trial itself was a political act producing political consequences .
of what new course could it mark the beginning ? ?
it was the conclusion of the first phase of a process of tragic recollection , and of refining the recollection , that will last as long as there are jews .
`` it is not an individual that is in the dock at this historical trial '' -- said ben gurion , `` and not the nazi regime alone -- but anti-semitism throughout history '' .
and if it was not an individual who was in the dock , why was the trial , as we shall observe later , all but scuttled in the attempt to prove eichmann a `` fiend '' ? ?
it might be contended , of course , that eichmann in stubbornly denying anti-semitic feelings was lying or insisting on a private definition of anti-semitism .
in such a case the defendant should serve as a clear example and not have to be tied to the issue by argument .
shout at eichmann though he might , the prosecutor could not establish that the defendant was falsifying the way he felt about jews or that what he did feel fell into the generally recognized category of anti-semitism .
but he believed in the jew-as-enemy in a kind of abstract , theological way , like a member of a cult speculating on the nature of things .
in regard to eichmann , it was to be found in the nazi outlook , which contained a principle separate from and far worse than anti-semitism , a principle by which the poison of anti-semitism itself was made more virulent .
at any rate , the substance of eichmann's testimony was that all his actions flowed from his membership in the party and the ss , and though the prosecutor did his utmost to prove actual personal hatred of jews , his success on this score was doubtful and the anti-semitic lesson weakened to that extent .
if anti-semitism was on trial in jerusalem , why was it not identified , and with enough emphasis to capture the notice of the world press , in its connection with the activities of eichmann's department of jewish affairs , as exemplified by the betrayal and murder of jews by non-police and non-party anti-semites in germany , as well as in poland , czechoslovakia , hungary ? ?
the measures for annihilation proposed and accepted at the conference affected industry , transportation , civilian agencies of government .
in other words , the promulgators of the murder plan made clear that physically exterminating the jews was but an extension of the anti-semitic measures already operating in every phase of german life , and that the new conspiracy counted on the general anti-semitism that had made those measures effective , as a readiness for murder .
since the magnitude of the plan made secrecy impossible , once the wheels had began to turn , persons controlling german industries , social institutions , and armed forces became , through their anti-semitism or their tolerance of it , conscious accomplices of hitler's crimes ; ;
what more could be asked for a trial intended to warn the world against anti-semitism than this opportunity to expose the exact link between the respectable anti-semite and the concentration-camp brute ? ?
no doubt many of the citizens of the third reich had conceived their anti-semitism as an `` innocent '' dislike of jews , as do others like them today .
ought not an edifying trial have made every effort to demonstrate this once and for all by showing how representative types of `` mere '' anti-semites were drawn step by step into the program of skull-bashings and gassings ? ?
but if there was evidence at the trial that aimed over eichmann's head at his collaborators in the societies where he functioned , the press seems to have missed it .
certainly , one of the best ways of warning the world against anti-semitism is to demonstrate its workings as a dangerous weapon .
do patriots everywhere know enough about how the persecution of the jews in germany and later in the occupied countries contributed to terrorizing the populations , splitting apart individuals and groups , arousing the meanest and most dishonest impulses , pulverizing trust and personal dignity , and finally forcing people to follow their masters into the abyss by making them partners in unspeakable crimes ? ?
clinging to the enemy-jew idea , he is forced to overcome habits of politeness and neighborliness ; ;
`` is this the type of citizen you desire '' ? ?
but though this characterization in no way diminished eichmann's guilt , the prosecutor , more deeply involved in the tactics of a criminal case than a political one , would have none of it .
should not everyone have been awakened to it as an outstanding fact of our time that the nations poisoned by anti-semitism proved less fortunate in regard to their own freedom than those whose citizens saved their jewish compatriots from the transports ? ?
as the first collective confrontation of the nazi outrage , the trial of eichmann represents a recovery of the jews from the shock of the death camps , a recovery that took fifteen years and which is still by no means complete ( though let no one believe that it could be hastened by silence ) .
it is already difficult to recall how little we knew before the trial of what had been done to the jews of europe .
most of the information elicited in jerusalem had been brought to the surface by the numerous war crimes tribunals and investigating commissions , and by reports , memoirs , and survivors' accounts .
three agreed , but four declined and were suspended .
the peace of the community was badly disturbed , and people across the nation , reading of the incident , felt uneasy .
he thereby precipitated a bitter controversy involving protestants , jews and roman catholics that continued for two months , until the city's board of hospitals lifted the ban on birth-control therapy .
immediately , the religious groups of the city were embroiled in an angry dispute over the alleged invasion of a man's right to freedom of religious belief and conscience .
it has flared up periodically on the front pages of newspapers in communities divided over birth-prevention regulations in municipal hospitals and health and family-welfare agencies .
where it is not actually erupting , it rumbles and smolders in sullen resentment like a volcano , ready to explode at any moment .
the first step toward the goal is the establishment of a new atmosphere of mutual good will and friendly communication on other than the polemical level .
`` all too frequently '' , points out james o'gara , managing editor of commonweal , `` catholics run roughshod over protestant sensibilities in this matter , by failure to consider the reasoning behind the protestant position and , particularly , by their jibes at the fact that protestant opinion on birth control has changed in recent decades '' .
the second step is to recognize the substantial agreement -- frequently blurred by emotionalism and inaccurate newspaper reporting -- already existing between catholics and non-catholics concerning the over-all objectives of family planning .
family planning is encouraged , so that parents will be able to provide properly for their offspring .
this means that such factors as the health of the parents , particularly the mother , their ability to provide their children with the necessities of life , the degree of population density of a country and the shortage of housing facilities may legitimately be taken into consideration in determining the number of offspring .
the laws of many states permit birth control only for medical reasons .
catholics , protestants and jews are in agreement over the objectives of family planning , but disagree over the methods to be used .
the church considers this to be the method provided by nature and its divine author : it involves no frustration of nature's laws , but simply an intelligent and disciplined use of them .
there is a difference in theological belief where there seems little chance of agreement .
the latter plays a prominent role in roman catholic theology and is considered decisive , entirely apart from scripture , in determining the ethical character of birth-prevention methods .
this conclusion is based on two propositions : that man by the use of his reason can ascertain god's purpose in the universe and that god makes known his purpose by certain `` given '' physical arrangements .
moreover , man may not supplant or frustrate the physical arrangements established by god , who through the law of rhythm has provided a natural method for the control of conception .
let it be granted then that the theological differences in this area between protestants and roman catholics appear to be irreconcilable .
why is it so different in regard to birth control ? ?
it is always a temptation for a religious organization , especially a powerful or dominant one , to impose through the clenched fist of the law its creedal viewpoint upon others .
consider what happened during world war 1 , , when the protestant churches united to push the prohibition law through congress .
with over four million american men away at war , protestants forced their distinctive theological belief upon the general public .
the attempt to enforce that belief ushered in a reign of bootleggers , racketeers , hijackers and gangsters that led to a breakdown of law unparalleled in our history .
that tumultuous , painful and costly experience shows clearly that a law expressing a moral judgment cannot be enforced when it has little correspondence with the general view of society .
up to the turn of the century , contraception was condemned by all christian churches as immoral , unnatural and contrary to divine law .
today , the roman catholic and orthodox churches stand virtually alone in holding that conviction .
in 1920 , the lambeth conference repeated its 1908 condemnation of contraception and issued `` an emphatic warning against the use of unnatural means for the avoidance of conception , together with the grave dangers -- physical , moral , and religious -- thereby incurred , and against the evils which the extension of such use threaten the race '' .
one is the primary purpose for which marriage exists , namely , the continuance of the race through the gift and heritage of children ; ;
the conference called for a vigorous campaign against the open or secret sale of contraceptives .
in 1958 , the conference endorsed birth control as the responsibility laid by god on parents everywhere .
in march , 1931 , 22 out of 28 members of a committee of the federal council of churches ratified artificial methods of birth control .
there is general agreement also that sex union between husbands and wives as an expression of mutual affection without relation to procreation is right '' .
what determines the morality , they state , is not the means used , but the motive in general , the means ( excluding abortion ) that prove most effective are considered the most ethical .
the board approved and commended the use of birth-control devices as a part of christian responsibility in family planning .
the general board declared : `` most of the protestant churches hold contraception and periodic continence to be morally right when the motives are right .
an action once universally condemned by all christian churches and forbidden by the civil law is now not only approved by the overwhelming majority of protestant denominations , but also deemed , at certain times , to be a positive religious duty .
repeated polls have disclosed that most married couples are now using contraceptives in the practice of birth control .
to try to oppose the general religious and moral conviction of such a majority by a legislative fiat would be to invite the same breakdown of law and order that was occasioned by the ill-starred prohibition experiment .
conscience and religion are concerned with private sin : the civil law is concerned with public crimes .
among the chief victims of such an ill-conceived imposition would be religion itself .
she carried , besides her captain , a crew of twenty-one and provisions for a voyage of exploration of the arctic waters of north america .
when she reached port , she was found to have on board only eight men , all near starvation .
the man who now commanded her had started the voyage as an ordinary seaman .
what happened to the fourteen missing men ? ?
for hundreds of years , the evidence available consisted of ( 1 ) the captain's fragmentary journal , ( 2 ) a highly prejudiced account by one of the survivors , ( 3 ) a note found in a dead man's desk on board , and ( 4 ) several second-hand reports .
but since 1927 , researchers digging into ancient court records and legal files have been able to find illuminating pieces of information .
historians have had two reasons for persisting so long in their investigations .
second , they believed it important to determine the fate of the captain -- a man whose name is permanently stamped on our maps , on american towns and counties , on a great american river , and on half a million square miles of arctic seas .
this is the story of his last tragic voyage , as nearly as we are able -- or ever , probably , will be able -- to determine :
each time his objective had been the same -- a direct water passage from western europe to the far east .
twice he had failed , and the muscovy company indicated it would not back him again .
this time he turned westward , to the middle atlantic coast of north america .
when the half moon put in at dartmouth , england , in the fall of 1609 , word of hudson's findings leaked out , and english interest in him revived .
he thereupon went to london and spent the winter talking to men of wealth .
he had obtained and provisioned a veteran ship called the discovery and had recruited a crew of twenty-one , the largest he had ever commanded .
a century of exploration had established that a great land mass , north and south america , lay between europe and the indies .
in fact , hudson's sail up the great north river had disposed of one of the last hopes .
nearly twenty-five years before , captain john davis had noted , as he sailed near the arctic circle , `` a very great gulf , the water whirling and roaring , as it were the meeting of tides '' .
( later , it was to be called hudson strait .
in 1602 , george waymouth , in the same little discovery that hudson now commanded , had sailed 300 miles up the strait before his frightened men turned the ship back .
even hudson , experienced in arctic sailing and determined as he was , must have had qualms as he slid down the thames .
on previous voyages , it had been in precisely such dangerous situations that he had failed as a leader and captain .
on the third voyage , a near-mutiny rising from a quarrel between dutch and english crew members on the half moon had almost forced him to head the ship back to amsterdam in mid-atlantic .
of only one could he be sure -- young john hudson , his second son .
philip staffe , the ship's carpenter , was a good worker , but perversely independent .
but men willing to sail at all into waters where wooden ships could be crushed like eggs were hard to find .
and he refused to be anything else .
he was a londoner , married , with three sons .
) in 1610 , hudson was probably in his early forties , a good navigator , a stubborn voyager , but otherwise fatally unsuited to his chosen profession .
there at the river's edge waited one henry greene , whom hudson listed as a `` clerk '' .
he was not the sort of sailor hudson wanted his backers to see on board and he had greene wait at gravesend , where the discovery picked him up .
on may 11 , she reached iceland .
the subsequent two-weeks wait made the crew quarrelsome .
the issue was settled on shore , greene winning and wilson remaining ashore , determined to catch the next fishing boat back to england .
early in june , the discovery passed `` desolation '' ( southern greenland ) and in mid-june entered the `` furious overfall '' .
fog hung over the route constantly .
the ship's compass was useless because of the nearness of the magnetic north pole .
after finding that its coasts led nowhere , however , he turned north again , toward the main , ice-filled passageway -- and the crew , at first uneasy , then frightened , rebelled .
for weeks he had been saying that hudson's idea of sailing through to java was absurd .
a group of sailors announced to hudson that they would sail no farther .
he went to his cabin and emerged carrying a large chart , which he set up in view of the crew .
when hudson had finished , the `` town meeting '' broke down into a general , wordy argument .
up spoke carpenter staffe , who said he wouldn't give ten pounds to be home .
the meeting broke up .
all through july the discovery picked her way along the 450-mile-long strait , avoiding ice and rocky islands .
to starboard was a cape a thousand feet high , patched with ice and snow , populated by thousands of screaming sea birds .
hudson named the capes digges and wolstenholme , for two of his backers .
after three weeks' swift sailing , however , the ship entered an area of shallow marshes and river deltas .
the great `` sea to the westwards '' was a dead end .
for he seemed to sense at once that before him was no south sea , but the solid bulk of the north american continent .
feverishly , he tried to brush away this intuition .
hundreds of miles to the north , the route back to england through the `` furious overfall '' was again filling with ice .
once more , juet's complaints were the loudest .
juet demanded that hudson prove his charges in an open trial .
hudson , presiding , heard juet's defense , then called for testimony from crew members .
hands on bible , seaman lodley and carpenter staffe swore that juet had tried to persuade them to keep muskets and swords in their cabins .
others added that juet had wanted to turn the ship homeward .
the new mate was robert bylot , talented but inexperienced .
the important result , however , was that juet and francis clemens , the deposed boatswain , became hudson's sworn enemies .
once , after the discovery lay for a week in rough weather , hudson ordered the anchor raised before the sea had calmed .
michael butt and adame moore were thrown off the capstan and badly injured .
thomas douglas , fifth earl of selkirk , a noble humanitarian scot concerned with the plight of the crofters of his native highlands , conceived a plan to settle them in the valley of the red river of the north .
having achieved this end , he was able to buy 116,000 square miles in the valleys of the red and assiniboine rivers .
thus at the same time that william henry harrison was preparing to pacify the aborigines of indiana territory and winning fame at the battle of tippecanoe , anglo-saxon settlement made a great leap into the center of the north american continent to the west of the american agricultural frontier .
by october the little colony about fort douglas ( present-day winnipeg ) numbered 100 .
the latter , members of two regiments of swiss mercenaries transported by great britain to canada to fight the americans in the war of 1812 , had settled in montreal and kingston at the close of the war in 1815 .
the mercenaries were little interested in farming and added nothing to the output of the farm plots on which all work was still done with hoes as late as 1818 .
when late in the summer the full extent of the damage was assessed , all but fifty of the scots , swiss and metis moved up the red to the mouth of the pembina river .
the new site was somewhat warmer than fort douglas and much closer to the great herds of buffalo on which the settlement must depend for food .
for many years the northwest company had its southern headquarters at prairie du chien on the mississippi river , some 300 miles southeast of present-day st. paul , minnesota .
on big stone lake near the headwaters of the red river , robert dickson , superintendent of the western indian department of canada , had a trading post and planned in 1818 to build a fort to be defended by twenty men and two small artillery pieces .
these carts were of a type devised in pembina in the days of alexander henry the younger about a decade before the selkirk colony was begun .
they were held together by pegs and withes and in later times drawn by a single ox in thills .
in september 1817 at fort daer ( pembina ) dickson met the noble lord whom , with the help of a band of sioux , he escorted to prairie du chien .
upon arriving at baltimore , selkirk on december 22 wrote to john quincy adams , secretary of state at washington , inquiring about laws covering trade with `` missouri and illinois territories '' .
''
in 1819 grasshoppers again destroyed the crop at `` the forks '' ( fort douglas ) and in december 1819 , twenty men left fort daer for the most northerly american outpost at prairie du chien .
with these completed and ice gone from the st. peter's river ( present-day minnesota river ) their 250 bushels of wheat , 100 bushels of oats and barley and 30 bushels of peas and some chickens were loaded onto the flat-bottomed boats and rowed up the river to big stone lake , across into lake traverse , and down the red .
this epic effort to secure seed for the colony cost selkirk ab1,040 .
thereafter seed and food became more plentiful and the colony remained in the north the year round .
in september 1822 two companies of infantry arrived at the mouth of the st. peter's river , the head of navigation on the mississippi , and began construction of fort st. anthony which , upon completion , was renamed in honor of its commander , colonel josiah snelling .
hercules l. dousman , fur trader and merchant at prairie du chien , contracted to supply selkirk's people with some 300 head of cattle , and alexis bailly and francois labothe were hired as drovers .
he set out on his 700-mile return journey with five families of discontented and disappointed swiss who turned their eyes toward the united states .
as these swiss were moving from the selkirk settlement to become the first civilian residents of minnesota , dousman of michilimackinac , michigan , and prairie du chien was traveling to red river to open a trade in merchandise .
alexander mcdonnell , governor of red river , and james bird , a chief factor of the hudson's bay company , ordered such `` sundry articles '' to a value of ab4,500 .
as the time drew near for the drawing of the british-american frontier by terms of the agreement of 1818 , the company suspected that the pembina colony -- its own post and fort daer -- was on american territory .
`` i have done everything '' , he wrote , `` to break up the whole of that unfortunate establishment .
they would attempt to bring supplies from st. louis or prairie du chien at `` great expense as well as danger '' .
the disasters of 1825-1826 caused more to leave .
in april came a rapid thaw that produced high waters which did not recede until mid-june .
by fall , 443 survivors of this arduous journey were clustered about fort snelling , but most of them were sent on to galena and st. louis , with a few going as far as vevay , indiana , a notable swiss center in the united states .
below the fort , high bluffs extended uninterruptedly for six miles along the mississippi river .
its people , including pierre bottineau and other american fur company employees and the refugees from fort garry , were joined by the remaining scots and swiss from fort snelling when major joseph plympton expelled them from the reservation in may 1840 .
while population at fort garry increased rapidly , from 2,417 in 1831 to 4,369 in 1840 , economic opportunities did not increase at a similar rate .
the company maintained a store at which products of england could be purchased and brought in goods for the new merchants on the understanding that they refrain from trading in furs .
in june 1845 , the governor and council of assiniboia imposed a 20 per cent duty on imports via hudson's bay which were viewed as aimed at the `` very vitals of the company's trade and power '' .
with their customary source of supply cut off , the fort garry free traders engaged three men to cart goods to them from the mississippi country .
this trade was subject to a tariff of 7.5 per cent after february 1835 , but much was smuggled into assiniboia with the result that the duty was reduced by 1841 to 4 per cent on the initiative of the london committee .
the letters of the common soldiers are rich in humor .
some of their figures of speech were colorful and expressive .
another reported that his comrades were `` in fine spirits pitching around like a blind dog in a meat house '' .
yanks were equally adept at figurative expression .
a second reported that the dilapidated houses in virginia `` look like the latter end of original sin and hard times '' .
still another , annoyed by the brevity of a recently received missive , wrote : `` yore letter was short and sweet , jist like a roasted maget '' .
she is a regular stub and twister , double geered .
humor found many modes of expression .
when you see them again give them my love -- not best respects now , but love by god '' .
after he had been away from home about a year he wrote : `` ( dear wife ) if i did not write and receive letters from you i believe that i would forgit that i was married .
a yank , disturbed by his increasing corpulence , wrote : `` i am growing so fat i am a burden 2 myself '' .
if they should bite before i wake , i pray the lord their jaws to break '' .
but he was very much like his associates in his hatred of camp routine .
the soldiers who comprised the rank and file of the civil war armies were an earthy people .
one of the most common of camp maladies was diarrhoea .
but a much more common designation was `` the sh-ts '' .
`` i expect to be tough as a knott as soon as i get over the georgia shitts '' .
a georgia soldier gave his wife the following description of the cause and consequence of diarrhoea : `` i have bin a little sick with diorah two or three days .
it sowered ( on ) my stomack and turn loose on me '' .
the letters which poured forth from camps were usually written under adverse circumstances .
most of the letters were written in the hubbub of camp , on stumps , pieces of bark , drum heads , or the knee .
scarcity of paper caused many southerners to adopt the practice of cross-writing , i.e. , after writing from left to right of the page in the usual manner , they gave the sheet a half turn and wrote from end to end across the lines previously written .
a yank writing from vicksburg , may 28 , 1863 , stated : `` not less than 50 balls have passed over me since i commenced writing .
a reb stationed near petersburg informed his mother : `` i need not tell you that i dodge pretty often for you can see that very plainly by the blots in this letter .
another reb writing under similar circumstances before atlanta reported : `` the yankees keep shooting so i am afraid they will knock over my ink , so i will close '' .
the most common type of letter was that of soldier husbands to their wives .
and these , full of homely advice , are among the most human and revealing of civil war letters .
occasionally they would write to the slaves .
sometimes these servants wrote or dictated for enclosure with the letters of their soldier-masters messages to their relatives and to members of their owners' families .
owing to the restrained usages characteristic of 19th-century america , these letters usually were stereotyped and revealed little depth of feeling .
but these comments are hardly printable .
i told them some sweet lies and they believed it all .
but i wold say i recond he did not mind it for he had a plenty more left and then they would lean to me like a sore eyd kitten to a basin of milk '' .
an ohio soldier who , from a comrade just returned from leave , received an unfavorable comment on the conduct of his sister , took pen in hand and delivered himself thus : `` dear sis .
i think you made a dam good chouise to turn off as nise a feler as alf dyer and let that orney thefin , drunkard , damed card playing sun of a bich com to sea you , the god damed theaf and lop yeard pigen tode helion , he is too orney for hel .
initiation into combat sometimes elicited from soldier correspondents choice comments about their experiences and reactions .
went out a skouting yesterday .
they brok & run and arch holored out to shoot the ornery suns of biches and we all let go at them .
some of the choicest remarks made by soldiers in their letters were in disparagement of unpopular officers .
an alabamian wrote : `` col. henry is ( an ignoramus ) fit for nothing higher than the cultivation of corn '' .
on december 9 , 1862 , sergeant edwin h. fay , an unusual louisianan who held a.b. and m.a. degrees from harvard university and who before the war was headmaster of a private school for boys in louisiana , wrote his wife : `` i saw pemberton and he is the most insignificant puke i ever saw .
jackson runs first and his cavalry are well drilled to follow their leader .
but he is a west point graduate and therefore must be born to command '' .
a massachusetts soldier , who seems to have been a civil war version of bill mauldin , wrote : `` the officers consider themselves as made of a different material from the low fellows in the ranks .
private george gray hunter of pennsylvania wrote : `` i am well convinced in my own mind that had it not been for officers this war would have ended long ago '' .
no group of officers came in for more spirited denunciation than the doctors .
shortly after the beginning of sherman's georgia campaign , an ailing yank wrote his homefolk : `` the surgeon insisted on sending me to the hospital for treatment .
the attitudes which the rebs and yanks took toward each other were very much the same and ranged over the same gamut of feeling , from friendliness to extreme hatred .
a pennsylvania soldier wrote that `` they were the hardest looking set of men that ever i saw .
'' private jenkins lloyd jones of the wisconsin light artillery wrote in his diary : `` i strolled among the alabamans on the right , found some of the greenest specimens of humanity i think in the universe , their ignorance being little less than the slave they despise with as imperfect a dialect .
in a similar vein , but writing from the opposite side , thomas taylor , a private in the 6th alabama volunteers , in a letter to his wife , stated : `` you know that my heart is with you but i never could have been satisfied to have staid at home when my country is invaded by a thievin foe , by a set of cowardly skunks whose motto is booty .
and the emphasis on nationalism in america is in proportion to the growth of american influence across the world .
historians have come to recognize two cardinal facts concerning nationalism and international influence .
what actually occurred in the past is seldom as important as what a given generation feels must have occurred .
its folklore and legend , usually disguised as history , are allowed to account for group actions , to provide a focal point for group loyalty , and to become a cohesive force for national identification .
the popularity of local color literature before the spanish-american war , the steady currency of the lincoln myth , the increased emphasis on the frontier west in our mass media are cases in point .
of course , nationalism has really outlived its usefulness in a country as world-oriented as ours , and its continued existence reflects one of the major culture lags of the twentieth-century united states .
it is an understandable paradox that most american history and most american literature is today written from an essentially egocentric and isolationistic point of view at the very time america is spreading her dominion over palm and pine .
anyone's identification with an international struggle , whether warlike or peaceful , requires absurd oversimplification and intense emotional involvement .
in america , such self-deception has served a particularly useful purpose .
but we must never forget , most of the appropriate heroes and their legends were created overnight , to answer immediate needs , almost always with conscious aims and ends .
abraham lincoln emerged as an incarnation of the national constitution .
and their roles are paralleled by those of patrick henry , nathan hale , andrew jackson , davy crockett , theodore roosevelt and many , many more .
1 ) most of the legends that are created to fan the fires of patriotism are essentially propagandistic and are not folk legends at all .
folklore is individually created art that a homogeneous group of people preserve , vary and recreate through oral transmission .
related to written literature , and often remaining temporarily frozen in written form , it loses its vitality when transcribed or removed from its oral existence .
in its propagandistic and commercial haste to discover our folk heritage , the public has remained ignorant of definitions such as this .
nor have we remembered that in the melting pot of america the hundreds of isolated and semi-isolated ethnic , regional and occupational groups did not fuse into a homogeneous national unit until long after education and industrialization had caused them to cast oral tradition aside as a means of carrying culturally significant material .
that much of what he calls folklore is the result of beliefs carefully sown among the people with the conscious aim of producing a desired mass emotional reaction to a particular situation or set of situations is irrelevant .
from all this we can now see that two streams of development run through the history of twentieth-century american folklore .
on the other we have the flag-wavers and the national sentimentalists who have been willing to use any patriotic , `` frontier western '' or colonial material willy-nilly .
after all , the field is large , difficult to define and seldom taught properly to american undergraduates .
the problems confuse even the experts .
anthropologists , housewives , historians and such by profession , they approach their discipline as amateurs , collectors , commercial propagandists , analysts or some combination of the four .
they have little `` esprit de corps '' .
his love of folklore has romanticism in it , and he doesn't care much about the dollar-sign or the footnote .
the amateur is closely related to the collector , who is actually no more than the amateur who has taken to the field .
he hunts folklore for the very `` field and stream '' reasons that many persons hunt game ; ;
fundamentally , both these types , the amateur and the collector , are uncritical and many of them don't distinguish well between real folklore and bogus material .
both are primarily concerned with the uses that can be made of the material that the collector has found .
the commercial propagandist , who can't afford to be critical , gets along well with the amateur , from whom he feeds , but he frequently steps on the analyst's toes by refusing to keep his material genuine .
to both the amateur and the commercial progandist the analyst lacks a soul , lacks appreciation with his endless probings and classifications .
the knowledge that most americans have of folklore comes through contact with commercial propagandists and a few energetic amateurs and collectors .
publishers want books that will sell , recording studios want discs that will not seem strange to ears used to hillbilly and jazz music , grade and high schools want quaint , but moral , material .
as a result , most people don't have more than a vague idea what folklore actually is ; ;
and so well is such ignorance preserved by the amateur and the money-maker that even at the college level most of the hundred-odd folklore courses given in the united states survive on sentiment and nationalism alone .
and while every writer must be dealt with as a special case , the interested student will want to ask himself a number of questions about each .
when the writer uses material does he tamper with it to improve its commercial effect or does he leave it pure ? ?
is he swept away by sentiment and nostalgia for an america that was ? ?
when he gets the answers to his questions he will be discouraged .
robert frost , for instance , writes about rural life in new england , but he does not include any significant amount of folklore in his poems .
in the second place , a large number of writers , making a more direct claim than frost to being `` folk writers '' of one sort or another , clearly make no distinctions between genuine and bogus material .
the last two writers introduce strong political bias into their works , and not unlike the union leaders that we will discuss soon , see folklore as a reservoir of protest by a downtrodden and publically silenced mass .
the folk are simply not homogeneous with respect to nation or political attitude .
nevertheless , with a reading public that longs for the `` good old days '' and with an awareness of our expanding international interests , it is easy for the benets to obtain a magnified position in literature by use of all sorts of americana , real or fake , and it is easy for the steinbecks and sandburgs to support their messages of reform by reading messages of reform into the minds of the folk .
the coalition was to prove inadvisable .
he had a round , frank irish face , creased in a jovial grin that stayed bleakly in place even when he was pumping bullets into someone's body .
he killed accurately , freely , and dispassionately .
like a fair number of bootleggers he disliked alcohol .
he had no apparent comprehension of morality ; ;
he had what was described by a psychologist as a `` sunny brutality '' .
landesco thought him `` just a superior sort of plugugly '' but he was , in fact , with his aggression and hostility , and nerveless indifference to risking or administering pain , a casebook psychopath .
o'banion was born in poverty , the son of an immigrant irish plasterer , in the north side's little hell , close by the sicilian quarter and death corner .
the influence of mass was less pervasive than that of the congested , slum tenements among the bawdy houses , honkytonks , and sawdust saloons of his birthplace ; ;
at the age of ten , when he was working as a newsboy in the loop , he was knocked down by a streetcar which resulted in his permanently shortened leg .
in his teens o'banion was enrolled in the vicious market street gang and he became a singing waiter in mcgovern's cafe , a notoriously low and rowdy dive in north clark street , where befuddled customers were methodically looted of their money by the singing waiters before being thrown out .
he was also at the same time gaining practical experience as a safe breaker and highwayman , and learning how to shoot to kill from a neanderthal convicted murderer named gene geary , later committed to chester asylum as a homicidal maniac , but whose eyes misted with tears when the young dion sang a ballad about an irish mother in his clear and syrupy tenor .
two years later he served another three months for assault .
but by now o'banion's political pull was beginning to be effective .
on one of his 1921 ventures he was actually come upon by a detective sergeant john j. ryan down on his knees with a tool embedded in a labour office safe in the postal telegraph building ; ;
as promptly as torrio , o'banion jumped into bootlegging .
unlike the sicilians , he additionally conducted holdups , robberies , and safe-cracking expeditions , and refused to touch prostitution .
but whose requirements ? ?
there was a question-and-answer gag that went around at that time : q. `` who'll carry the forty-second and forty-third wards '' ? ?
but as november 1924 drew close the democratic hierarchy was sorely troubled by grapevine reports that o'banion was being wooed by the opposition , and was meeting and conferring with important republicans .
the reception was held in a private dining room of the webster hotel on lincoln park west .
the guest list is in itself a little parable of the state of american civic life at this time .
when mayor dever heard of the banquet he summoned hughes for an explanation of why he had been dishonouring the police department by consorting with these felons and fixers .
`` but when i arrived and recognised a number of notorious characters i had thrown into the detective bureau basement half a dozen times , i knew i had been framed , and withdrew almost at once '' .
there was a brief interruption while one of o'banion's men jerked out both his guns and threatened to shoot a waiter who was pestering him for a tip .
this dinner was the start of a new blatancy in the relationship between the gangs and the politicians , which , prior to 1924 , says pasley , `` had been maintained with more or less stealth '' , but which henceforth was marked by these ostentatious gatherings , denounced by a clergyman as `` belshazzar feasts '' , at which `` politicians fraternized cheek by jowl with gangsters , openly , in the big downtown hotels '' .
however , this inaugural feast did its sponsors no good whatever .
on election day -- november 4 -- he energetically marshalled his force of bludgeon men , bribers , and experts in forging repeat votes .
this further demonstration of o'banion's ballooning power did not please torrio and capone .
he behaved publicly with a cocky , swaggering truculence that offended their vulpine latin minds , and behaved towards them personally with an unimpressed insolence that enraged them beneath their blandness .
to settle this slight , o'banion went down to the la salle theatre in the loop , where , he had learned , dave miller was attending the opening of a musical comedy .
o'banion drew his guns and fired at dave , severely wounding him in the stomach .
o'banion tucked away his gun and walked out of the theatre ; ;
that sort of braggadocio , for that sort of reason , in the view of torrio and capone , was a nonsense .
one of the beer-runners telephoned o'banion -- on a line tapped by the detective bureau -- and reported the situation .
to them bums ? ?
upon which the detective bureau despatched rifle squads to prevent trouble if o'banion should send his gunmen out to deal with the hijacking policemen .
he says he don't want no trouble '' .
for three years , since the liquor territorial conference , torrio had , with his elastic patience , and because he knew that retaliation could cause only violent warfare and disaster to business , tolerated o'banion's impudent double-crossing .
when , as a diplomatic gesture of amity and in payment for the loan of gunmen in the april election , torrio had given o'banion a slice of cicero , the profits from that district had been $20,000 a month .
these booze customers had until then been buying their supplies from the sheldon , saltis-mcerlane , and druggan-lake gangs , and now they were competing for trade with the torrio-capone saloons ; ;
the revenue from o'banion's cicero territory went up still higher , until the yield was more than the torrio-capone takings from the far bigger trade area of chicago's south and west sides .
at last , even the controlled torrio was unable to hold still , and he tentatively suggested that o'banion should take a percentage in the stickney brothels in return for one from his cicero beer concession .
still more jealous bitterness was engendered by the o'banion gang's seizure from a west side marshalling yard of a freight-car load of canadian whisky worth $100,000 and by one of the biggest coups of the prohibition era -- the sibley warehouse robbery , which became famous for the cool brazenness of the operation .
these 1750 cases were carted off in a one-night operation by the o'banion men , who left in their stead the same number of barrels filled with water .
the most infamous of all was launched by the explosion of the island of krakatoa in 1883 ; ;
the ancient greeks recorded several catastrophic inundations by huge waves .
indeed , a tremendously destructive tsunami that arose in the arabian sea in 1945 has even revived the interest of geologists and archaeologists in the biblical story of the flood .
its waves persisted for a week and were felt as far away as the english coast .
they are far more common in the pacific .
the hawaiian islands are struck severely an average of once every 25 years .
one wave swamped more than 1,000 ships and boats in osaka bay .
in 1896 a japanese tsunami killed 27,000 people and swept away 10,000 homes .
an ordinary sea wave is rarely more than a few hundred feet long from crest to crest -- no longer than 320 feet in the atlantic or 1,000 feet in the pacific .
while a wind wave never travels at more than 60 miles per hour , the velocity of a tsunami in the open sea must be reckoned in hundreds of miles per hour .
lagrange's law says that its velocity is equal to the square root of the product of the depth times the acceleration due to gravity .
tsunami are so shallow in comparison with their length that in the open ocean they are hardly detectable .
usually it is only when they approach shallow water on the shore that they build up to their terrifying heights .
not until they sailed home at the end of the day , through a sea strewn with bodies and the wreckage of houses , were they aware of what had happened .
the giant waves are more dangerous on flat shores than on steep ones .
generally the first salvo of a tsunami is a rather sharp swell , not different enough from an ordinary wave to alarm casual observers .
reefs are left high and dry , and the beaches are covered with stranded fish .
many of them paid for their curiosity with their lives , for some minutes later the first giant wave roared over the shore .
when a second quake came , they dashed back to the beach , fearing that they might be buried under landslides .
a tsunami is not a single wave but a series .
the waves may keep coming for many hours .
among the observers of the 1946 tsunami at hilo was francis p. shepard of the scripps institution of oceanography , one of the world's foremost marine geologists .
their onrush and retreat , he reported , was accompanied by a great hissing , roaring and rattling .
on some of the islands' beaches the waves came in gently ; ;
in hilo bay they were from 21 to 26 feet high .
scientists and fishermen have occasionally seen strange by-products of the phenomenon .
the luminosity of the water is now believed to have been caused by the stimulation of vast numbers of the luminescent organism noctiluca miliaris by the turbulence of the sea .
the fish have swallowed vast numbers of bottom-living diatoms , raised to the surface by the disturbance .
gratified fishermen hauled them in by the thousands .
it consists of a series of pipes and a pressure-measuring chamber which record the rise and fall of the water surface .
but when waves with a period of between 10 and 40 minutes begin to roll over the ocean , they set in motion a corresponding oscillation in a column of mercury which closes an electric circuit .
such equipment has been installed at hilo , midway , attu and dutch harbor .
this center also receives prompt reports on earthquakes from four coast survey stations in the pacific which are equipped with seismographs .
by means of charts showing wave-travel times and depths in the ocean at various locations , it is possible to estimate the rate of approach and probable time of arrival at hawaii of a tsunami getting under way at any spot in the pacific .
all of these activities are geared to a top-priority communication system , and practice tests have been held to assure that everything will work smoothly .
on november 4 , 1952 , an earthquake occurred under the sea off the kamchatka peninsula .
the warning system immediately went into action .
while accounts of the progress of the tsunami came in from various points in the pacific ( midway reported it was covered with nine feet of water ) , the hawaiian station made its calculations and notified the military services and the police that the first big wave would arrive at honolulu at 23:30 greenwich time .
they hurled a cement barge against a freighter in honolulu harbor , knocked down telephone lines , marooned automobiles , flooded lawns , killed six cows .
there is little doubt that the warning system saved lives and reduced the damage .
in the vulnerable areas of the pacific there should be restrictions against building homes on exposed coasts , or at least a requirement that they be either raised off the ground or anchored strongly against waves .
nothing remains the same .
the land , too , is changing , and earthquakes are daily reminders of this .
sometimes this is accompanied by visible shifts of the ground surface ; ;
and everywhere can be found scars of earlier breaks once deeply buried .
the effects of earthquakes on civilization have been widely publicized , even overemphasized .
superstition has often blended with fact to color reports .
these waves have shown that 1,800 miles below the surface a liquid core begins , and that it , in turn , has a solid inner core .
two unsolved mysteries are based on these facts .
( 2 ) if earthquakes do occur at such depths , why not deeper ? ?
in the search for oil and gas , we make similar waves under controlled conditions with dynamite and learn from them where there are buried rock structures favorable to the accumulation of these resources .
the following discussion of this subject has been adapted from the book causes of catastrophe by l. don leet .
at twelve minutes after five on the morning of wednesday , april 18 , 1906 , san francisco was shaken by a severe earthquake .
in ireland's county limerick , near the river shannon , there is a quiet little suburb by the name of garryowen , which means `` garden of owen '' .
the cry `` garryowen '' ! !
garryowen is the battle cry of the 7th u.s. cavalry regiment , `` the fighting seventh '' .
but don't tell that to a veteran of the fighting seventh , especially in a saloon on saturday night .
wiry and burr-headed , with steel blue eyes and a chest splattered with medals , chandler is the epitome of the old-time trooper .
chandler had been commissioned in the medical service corps and was serving as a personnel officer for the kansas city medical depot when he decided that if he was going to make the army his career , he wanted to be in the fighting part of it .
the next thing he knew he was reporting for duty as commanding officer of troop h , 7th cavalry , in the middle of corps maneuvers in japan .
first of all , no unit likes to have a new co brought in from the outside , especially when he's an armchair trooper .
in combat , helping your co make a fool of himself might mean getting yourself killed .
chandler understood this and expected the worst .
chandler had expected a tough old trooper with a gravel voice .
he had enlisted in the army straight out of high school and had immediately set about learning his new trade .
he could lead a patrol and he knew his paper work .
he not only knew soldiering , but mathematics , history and literature as well .
he was filled with the spirit of the fighting seventh .
sergeant early let the new co know just how lucky he was to be in the best troop in the best regiment in the united states army .
for example , it was a battalion of the 7th cavalry under colonel george armstrong custer that had been wiped out at the battle of the little big horn .
but what made the load lighter was the realization that every officer , non-com and trooper was ready and willing to help him carry it , for the good of the troop and the regiment .
it was the 7th cavalry whose troopers were charged with guarding the imperial palace of the emperor .
the final proof was a small incident .
in the middle of the party chandler looked up to see four smiling faces bearing down upon him , each beaming above the biggest , greenest shamrock he had ever seen .
and when the singing began , it was the gouldings who sang the old irish songs the best .
for marvin goulding , like giovanni martini , the bugler boy who carried custer's last message , or margarito lopez , the one-man army on leyte , was a garryowen , through and through .
and so mel chandler got the spirit of garryowen .
one of his innovations was to see to it that every man -- cook and clerk as well as rifleman -- qualified with every weapon in the troop .
the troop received a new leader , lieutenant robert m. carroll , fresh out of rotc and bucking for regular army status .
so mel chandler set out to sell him on the spirit of garryowen , just as he himself had been sold a short time before .
its entire complement of non-commissioned officers on the platoon level had departed as cadre for another unit , and its vehicles were still those used in the drive across luzon in world war 2 .
from then on the fighting seventh was in the thick of the bitterest fighting in korea .
the regiment was dug in on the east side of the river and the north koreans were steadily building up a concentration of crack troops on the other side .
at 6 o'clock on the morning of august 12 , they were in doubt no longer .
the enemy had filtered across the river during the night and a full force of 1000 men , armed with russian machine guns , attacked the position held by chandler's men .
first came the cannon fodder , white-clad civilians being driven into death as a massive human battering ram .
they overran the 7th cav's forward machine-gun positions through sheer weight of numbers , over piles of their own dead .
captain chandler saw that it was building up strength .
one of the more seriously wounded was lieutenant carroll , the young officer bucking for the regular army .
then mel chandler started up the hill .
the first thing he knew the words `` garryowen '' ! !
his followers shouted the old battle cry after him and charged the hill , firing as they ran .
chandler , looking to right and left to see how his men were faring , suddenly saw another figure bounding up the hill , hurling grenades and hollering the battle cry as he ran .
he had formed his own task force of three stragglers and led them up the hill in a fighting seventh charge .
but an enemy grenade hit carroll in the head and detonated simultaneously .
enemy reinforcements came pouring down , seeking a soft spot .
marvin goulding saw what was happening .
`` okay , men '' , he said .
goulding leaped to his feet and started forward , `` garryowen '' ! !
but the bullets whacked home before he finished his battle cry and marvin goulding fell dead .
then they let out a bellow of anguish and rage and , cursing , screaming and hollering `` garryowen '' ! !
that finished the job that captain chandler and lieutenant carroll had begun .
reinforcements came up quickly to take advantage of the opening made by goulding's platoon .
artillery and air strikes were called in to kill them by the hundreds .
today he is a major -- in the regular army .
after years of digging , nights and weekends , he put together the big , profusely illustrated book , of garryowen and glory , which is probably the most complete history of any military unit .
for nearly a century the cry has never failed to rally the fighting men of the regiment .
from the enlisted men he pistol-whipped to the subordinate officer whose wife he tried to rape , a lot of men had plenty of reason heartily to dislike marcus reno .
but when a board of inquiry was called to look into the charges of cowardice made against him , the men who had seen reno leave the battlefield and the officer who had heard reno suggest that the wounded be left to be tortured by the sioux , refused to say a harsh word against him .
although it was at the battle of the little horn , about which more words have been written than any other battle in american history , that the 7th cavalry first made its mark in history , the regiment was ten years old by then .
during the civil war , custer , who achieved a brilliant record , was made brigadier general at the age of 23 .
i do not mean to suggest that these assumptions are self-evident , in the sense that everyone agrees with them .
i do mean , however , that i take them for granted , and that everything i shall be saying would appear quite idiotic against any contrary assumptions .
the ultimate objective of american policy is to help establish a world in which there is the largest possible measure of freedom and justice and peace and material prosperity ; ;
i speak of `` the largest possible measure '' because any person who supposes that these conditions can be universally and perfectly achieved -- ever -- reckons without the inherent imperfectability of himself and his fellow human beings , and is therefore a dangerous man to have around .
these conditions are unobtainable -- are not even approachable in the qualified sense i have indicated -- without the prior defeat of world communism .
and because communists have the will and , as long as soviet power remains intact , the capacity to prevent their realization .
assumption 3 .
proximate in the sense that there are more distant , more `` positive '' ends we seek , to which victory over communism is but a means .
peace is a worthy objective ; ;
freedom , in the sense of self-determination , is a worthy objective ; ;
justice is a worthy objective ; ;
prosperity is a worthy objective ; ;
it may be , of course , that such objectives can be pursued consisently with a policy designed to overthrow communism ; ;
the uses of power
this brings us squarely to the problem of power , and the uses a nation makes of power .
and i suggest further that the main cause of the trouble we are in has been the failure of american policy-makers , ever since we assumed free world leadership in 1945 , to deal with this problem realistically and seriously .
one was demonstrably false ; ;
the first was that america had become -- or was in danger of becoming -- a second-rate military power .
you may have misgivings about certain aspects of our military establishment -- i certainly do -- but you know any comparison of over-all american strength with over-all soviet strength finds the united states not only superior , but so superior both in present weapons and in the development of new ones that our advantage promises to be a permanent feature of u.s.-soviet relations for the foreseeable future .
suppose , he says , that the tables were turned , and we were in the soviets' position : `` there would be more than 2,000 modern soviet fighters , all better than ours , stationed at 250 bases in mexico and the caribbean .
half of the population of the u.s. would be needed to work on arms just to feed the people '' .
add also a comparatively primitive industrial plant which would severely limit our capacity to keep abreast of the soviets even in the missile field which is reputed to be our main strength .
u.s. `` prestige ''
the contention needs to be formulated with much greater precision than it ever was during the campaign , but once that has been done , i fail to see how any serious student of world affairs can quarrel with it .
prestige , however , is only a minor part of the problem ; ;
prestige is a measure of how other people think of you , well or ill .
only the vain and incurably sentimental among us will lose sleep simply because foreign peoples are not as impressed by our strength as they ought to be .
the evidence suggests that foreign peoples believe the united states is weaker than the soviet union , and is bound to fall still further behind in the years ahead .
but it becomes very important if foreign peoples react the way human beings typically do -- namely , by taking steps to end up on what appears to be the winning side .
still , these guesses about the outcome of the struggle cannot be as important as the actual power relationship between the soviet union and ourselves .
and is western influence greater or less than it used to be ? ?
in answering these questions , we need to ask not merely whether communist troops have crossed over into territories they did not occupy before , and not merely whether disciplined agents of the cominform are in control of governments from which they were formerly excluded : the success of communism's war against the west does not depend on such spectacular and definitive conquests .
communist political warfare , we must remember , is waged insidiously and in deliberate stages .
the soviets understand , moreover , that the first step in turning a country toward communism is to turn it against the west .
the second stage is to retain the nominal classification of `` neutralist '' , while in fact turning the country into an active advocate and adherent of soviet policy .
the kremlin's goal is the isolation and capture , not of ghana , but of the united states -- and this purpose may be served very well by countries that masquerade under a `` neutralist '' mask , yet in fact are dependable auxiliaries of the soviet foreign office .
six years ago french indochina , though in troubie , was in the western camp .
laos is teetering between communism and pro-communist neutralism ; ;
indonesia , in the early days of the republic , leaned toward the west .
ceylon has moved from a pro-western orientation to a neutralism openly hostile to the west .
today the nasser and kassem governments are adamantly hostile to the west , are dependent for their military power on soviet equipment and personnel ; ;
a short time ago all africa was a western preserve .
today , africa is swerving violently away from the west and plunging , it would seem , into the soviet orbit .
today it is up for grabs .
in some countries the trend has gone further than others : mexico , panama , and venezuela are displaying open sympathy for castroism , and there is no country -- save the dominican republic whose funeral services we recently arranged -- where castroism and anti-americanism does not prevent the government from unqualifiedly espousing the american cause .
the strains of neutralism are running strong , notably in england , and even in germany .
what have we to show by way of counter-successes ? ?
there was the hungarian revolution which we praised and mourned , but did nothing about .
there was the revolution in tibet which we pretended did not exist .
and contrary to what has been said recently , we did not wait for `` outside pressures '' and `` world opinion '' to bring down that communist government ; ;
we served our national interests , and by so doing we saved the guatemalan people the ultimate in human misery .
`` sounds exactly like last time '' .
the middle-aged man said over and over , `` why did i come here , why did i come here '' .
amid the crackle of small arms and automatic weapons , i heard the thumping of mortars .
this was my second day in vientiane , the administrative capital of laos , and my thoughts were none too brave .
where should i go ? ?
better stay in the hotel lobby , where the walls looked good and thick .
hotel attendants pulled parked bicycles into the lobby .
`` please '' , she said , `` please '' .
the american newspaperman worried about getting to the cable office .
had the communist-led pathet lao finally come this far ? ?
gunfire saves the moon
there had been an eclipse of the moon .
the din was successful , too , for just before the moon disappeared , the frightened toad had begun to spit it out again , which meant good luck all around .
a restaurant posted a reminder to patrons `` who became excited and left without paying their checks '' .
and no wonder , for vientiane , the old city of sandalwood , had become the city of bullet holes .
along the main thoroughfares hardly a house had not been peppered .
mortars had demolished the defense ministry and set fire to the american embassy next door .
this damage had been done in the battle of vientiane , fought less than three months earlier when four successive governments had ruled here in three days ( december 9-11 , 1960 ) .
the pathet lao forces held two northern provinces and openly took the offensive in three more .
`` and it's all the more tragic because it's so little deserved '' , said mr. j. j. a. frans , a belgian official of the united nations educational , scientific , and cultural organization .
practically all the people of laos , he explained -- about two million of them -- are rice farmers , and the means and motives of modern war are as strange to them as clocks and steel plows .
nobody can tell more closely how many villages there are .
yet they include peoples as different from one another as oregonians are from patagonians .
`` .
faith in the buddha and staying at peace with the phis , the spirits ; ;
harmony in laos ? ?
he spoke of the season of dryness and dust , brought by the monsoon from the northeast , in harmony with the season of rain and mud , brought by the monsoon from the southwest .
shy , slender-waisted girls at the loom in harmony with the frangipani by the wayside .
for so long as death was not violent , it was natural and to be welcomed , making a funeral a feast .
yet laos was now one of the most explosive headaches of statesmen around the globe .
the royal lao army , on the other hand , was paid and equipped with american funds .
we were there at a moment when the situation in laos threatened to ignite another war among the world's giants .
to find out , we traveled throughout that part of laos still nominally controlled , in the daytime at least , by the royal lao army : from attopeu , the city of buffalo dung in the southeast , to muong sing , the city of lions in the northwest , close to communist china ( map , page 250 ) .
we flew in rickety planes so overloaded that we wondered why they didn't crash .
`` we '' were bill garrett of the national geographic illustrations staff , whose three cameras and eight lenses made him look as formidable as any fighting man we met ; ;
and myself .
he had attended three universities in the united states .
before the airplanes came , he said , travel in laos was just about impossible .
alas , so it almost proved for us , too .
and getting them seemed a life's work .
we were told that to the pathet lao , a kidnaped american was worth at least $750 , a fortune in laos .
now pathet lao propagandists were reported marching him barefoot from village to village , as evidence of evil american intervention .
we had nearly decided that all the tales of lao lethargy must be true , when we were invited to take a trip with the prime minister .
his highness had decided only two hours ago to go out of town , and he was eager to be off .
and so , after a flight southeast to savannakhet , we found ourselves bouncing along in a jeep right behind the land-rover of prince boun oum of champassak , a tall man of churchillian mien in a bush jacket and a ten-gallon hat from texas .
the temperature rose to 105-degrees .
in keng kok , the city of silkworms , the prime minister bought fried chickens and fried cicadas , and two notebooks for me .
it was a spleen-crushing day .
more bouncing , another stop , a new house for teachers , a new well .
we were miserable .
together they had probably done more than any other men to help push laos toward the 20th century -- constructively .
john , an engineer and anthropologist with a doctorate from the london school of economics , headed the rural development division of usom , the united states operations mission administering u.s. aid .
`` we ask the people what they want , and they supply the labor .
that way they have an infirmary for $400 .
ask mr. keo '' .
`` our people have been used to accepting things as they found them '' , he said .
now they learn that men can change their surroundings , through their traditional village elders , without violence .
you might say we are in the nation-building business '' .
then came coconuts , eggs , and rice wine .
the soldiers are fighting and the americans are helping , he said , but in the fight against the pathet lao the key factor is the villager himself .
we did it for three days .
crossing the 4,000-foot width of the mekong at champassak , on a raft with an outboard motor , we took off our dusty shirts and enjoyed a veritable ocean breeze .
briefly we rolled over a paved road up to pak song , on the cool bolovens plateau .
strings keep souls in place
this is the most endearing of lao ceremonies .
the preparations were elaborate : flowers , candles , incense sticks , rice wine , dozens of delicacies , and pieces of white cotton string .
the candles were lighted , and we sat on split-bamboo mats among the village notables .
now a distinguished old man called on nine divinities to come and join us .
a man has 32 souls , one for each part of the body .
with the divinities present and our souls in place , we were wished health , happiness , and power .
these were to be kept on , to hold in the 32 souls .
it had a festering hole as big as a silver dollar .
john said : `` i have some antiseptic salve with me , but it's too late for that '' .
jewish identity was often confused with social and economic strivings .
`` it means that you have to get ahead '' .
`` i like the tradition '' , a girl said .
but you don't have to worship in the traditional way .
as i see it , there's no real difference between being jewish , catholic , or protestant '' .
still another boy asserted : `` to be a good jew is to do no wrong ; ;
when asked how this was different from being a good protestant , the boy answered , `` it's the same thing '' .
they discovered that , although 42 per cent of a sample of catholic students and 15 per cent of the protestants believed it important to live in accordance with the teachings of their religion , only 8 per cent of the jewish students had this conviction .
to get happiness for yourself -- 28 per cent ; ;
nevertheless , most of the teen-agers i interviewed believed in maintaining their jewish identity and even envisioned joining a synagogue or temple .
one boy said querulously about orthodox jews : `` it's the twentieth century , and they don't have to wear beards '' .
`` we were brought up that way '' was one statement which won general assent .
still another suggested that he would join a temple `` for social reasons , since i'll be living in a suburb '' .
most of the teen-agers i interviewed rejected it on pragmatic grounds .
a fourteen-year-old girl from the middle west observed wryly that , in her community , religion inconveniently interfered with religious activities -- at least with the peripheral activities that many middle class jews now regard as religious .
another girl from a relatively large midwestern city described herself as `` the only orthodox girl in town '' .
the older teens
sixty-five per cent of the jewish teen-agers of college age attend institutions of higher learning .
this may help explain a phenomenon described by a small-town jewish boy .
however , in their junior and senior years , they generally forego their athletic pursuits , presumably in the interest of better academic achievement .
the percentage of jewish girls who attend college is almost as high as that of boys .
the vocational motive is the dominant one for boys , while jewish girls attend college for social reasons and to become culturally developed .
it is they who read -- and make -- jewish best-sellers and then persuade their husbands to read them .
`` people automatically assume that i'm in college '' , a nineteen-year-old machinist observed irritably .
the jewish working girl almost invariably works in an office -- in contradistinction to gentile factory workers -- and , buttressed by a respectable income , she is likely to dress better and live more expansively than the college student .
the lower-middle class college student
this is particularly true in large centers of jewish population like new york , chicago , and philadelphia .
perhaps the jewish students at brooklyn college -- constituting 85 per cent of those who attend the day session -- can serve as a paradigm of the urban , lower-middle class jewish student .
typically , in a lower-middle class jewish family , a son will be sent to an out-of-town school , if financial resources warrant it , while the daughter will attend the local college .
first , the girl's education has a lower priority than the son's .
most jewish mothers are determined to exercise vigilance over the social and sexual lives of their daughters by keeping them home .
one can assume that some of the brightest boys are out of town .
on the one hand , there is a sense of not having moved beyond the ambiance of their high school .
they have a sense of marginality at being denied that special badge of status , the out-of-town school .
`` it's people of your own kind '' , a girl remarked .
of course , i would like to go to an out-of-town school where there are all kinds of people , but i would want lots of jewish kids there '' .
brooklyn college is unequivocally jewish in tone , and efforts to detribalize the college by bringing in unimpeachably midwestern types on the faculty have been unavailing .
and the rebellion of these third generation jews is not the traditional conflict of culture but , rather , a protest against a culture that they view as softly and insidiously enveloping .
`` they don't like it if i do anything away from home .
for girls , the overprotection is far more pervasive .
a freshman girl's father not too long ago called a dean at brooklyn college and demanded the `` low-down '' on a boy who was going out with his daughter .
under pressure from parents , the majority of brooklyn college girls major in education since that co-ordinates best with marriage plans -- limited graduate study requirement and convenient working hours .
a kind of double standard exists here for jewish boys and girls as it does in the realm of sex .
first , the student trains on his hapless parents the heavy artillery of his newly acquired psychological and sociological insights .
it is significant that the catskills , which used to be the summer playground for older teen-agers , a kind of summer suburb of new york , no longer attracts them in great numbers -- except for those who work there as waiters , bus boys , or counselors in the day camps .
but it should be pointed out that some of the new watering places -- fire island , nantucket , westhampton , long island , for example -- tend to be homogeneously jewish .
in general , however , the timetable of travel lags considerably behind that of the student at harvard or smith .
brooklyn college is marjorie morningstar territory , as much as the bronx or central park west .
it is interesting that , although the percentage of married students is not appreciably higher at brooklyn than elsewhere -- about 30 per cent of the women and 25 per cent of the men in the graduating class -- the anxiety of the unmarried has puffed up the estimate .
and the school newspaper sells space to jubilant fraternities , sororities , and houses ( in the house plan association ) that have good news to impart .
there are boxed proclamations in the newspaper of watchings , pinnings , ringings , engagements , and marriages in a scrupulously graded hierarchy of felicity .
the brooklyn college student shows some striking departures from prevailing collegiate models .
the girls are prone to dress far more flamboyantly than their counterparts out of town , and eye shadow , mascara , and elaborate bouffant hairdos -- despite the admonitions of cautious guidance personnel -- are not unknown even in early morning classes .
brooklyn college is distinctive for not having an official drinking place .
this should be used frequently ( but shaken before using ) .
this could also be used for any other skin irritation .
`` female troubles '' of various kinds do not seem to have been common on the frontier ; ;
the sufferer drinks tansy tea .
bruises and black eyes were relieved by application of raw beefsteak .
) salted butter was another cure for bruises .
the burn oozed watery fluid for many days , and finally the healing was completed by bathing it with epsom salts .
`` butter salve '' or `` butter ointment '' was used for burns , and for bruises as well .
when it was cool , the fat was skimmed off and bottled .
one man , badly burned about the face and eyes by an arc welding torch , was blinded and could not find a doctor at the time .
later the doctor used mineral oil on the burns .
to stop bleeding , cobwebs were applied to cuts and wounds .
this would stop the flow and also prevent infection .
she sprinkled common sugar directly on the injury and then bound it loosely with cotton cloth , over which she poured turpentine .
there is scarcely a scar showing .
a `` chaw '' of tobacco put on an open wound was both antiseptic and healing .
one old man told me that when he was a boy he was kicked in the head by a fractious mule and had his scalp laid back from the entire front of his head .
when they reached the boy , the father sliced a new plug of tobacco , put the scalp back in place , and covered the raw edges with the slices .
there was no cleaning or further care , but the wound healed in less than two weeks and showed no scar .
until quite recently , `` sterile '' maggots could be bought to apply to a wound ; ;
tetanus could be avoided by pouring warm turpentine over a wound .
another sprinkled sugar on hot coals and held the wounded foot or hand in the smoke .
in 1872 there were known to be twenty-two in norton county , and one had been in the family for 200 years .
while nowadays we recognize the fact that there are many causes for bleeding at the nose , not long ago a nosebleed was simply that , and treatment had little variation .
this might be applied to the top of the nose or the back of the neck , pressed on the upper lip , or inserted into the nostril ( cotton was usually used in this last ) .
or the victim could chew hard on a piece of paper , meanwhile pressing his fingers tight in his ears .
blood blisters could be prevented from forming by rubbing a work blister immediately with any hard nonpoisonous substance .
this mixture was then spread on a cloth and wrapped around the affected part .
insect bites were cured in many ways .
`` get a bite , spit on it '' was a proverb .
yellow clay was used as a poultice for insect bites and also for swellings ; ;
chiggers were a common pest along streams and where gardens and berries thrived ; ;
bathing the itching parts with kerosene gave relief and also killed the pests .
for mosquito bites a paste of half a glass of salt and half a glass of soda was made .
a handier remedy was to bathe the painful part in strong soapy water ; ;
just plain old black dirt was also used as a pack to relieve wasp or bee stings .
to keep them out of homes , even in the 1900's , was a chore .
kerosene was very effective in ridding pioneer homes of the pests .
a kerosene shampoo seems a heroic treatment , but it did the job .
a cinder or other small object could be removed from the eye by placing a flaxseed in the eye .
another way to remove small objects from the eye was to have the person look cross-eyed ; ;
shingles were cured by gentian , an old drug , used in combinations .
itching skin , considered `` just nerves '' , was eased by treating with whiskey and salt .
to cure fungus growths on mouth or hands people made a strong tea by using a handful of sassafras bark in a quart of water .
six treatments cured one case which lasted a month and had defied other remedies .
now one hears that heat and hot water are used instead .
chilblains were also treated with tincture of capsicum or cabbage leaves .
a german informant gave me a sure cure made by combining rye flour and molasses into a poultice .
this was also used for sores .
one veracious woman tells me she has used thin potato parings for both corns and calluses on her feet and they remove the pain or `` fire '' .
this softened the skin so that in the morning when the bandage was removed the corn could be scraped off and a bit of corn plaster put on .
one young girl told me how her mother removed a wart from her finger by soaking a copper penny in vinegar for three days and then painting the finger with the liquid several times .
saliva gathered in the mouth after a night's sleep was considered poisonous ; ;
one wart cure was to wrap it in a hair from a blonde gypsy .
a simpler method was to tie a thread tightly around the wart at its base and wear it this way .
one person recommended to me washing the wart with sulphur water ; ;
another common method was to cut an onion in two and place each half on the wart for a moment ; ;
as the onion decayed , so did the wart .
sore feet by calf's-foot , an herb from the pioneer's ubiquitous herb garden , or by soaking the feet in a pan of hot water in which two cups of salt had been dissolved .
this does give relief , as i can testify .
pains in the back of the leg and in the abdomen were prevented from reaching the upper body by tying a rope about the patient's waist .
except for the wine waiter in a restaurant -- always an inscrutable plenipotentiary unto himself , the genii with the keys to unlock the gates of the wine world are one's dealer , and the foreign shipper or negociant who in turn supplies him .
it may , on occasion , be anything but that .
again , by spreading one's purchases over several wine dealers , one becomes familiar with the names and specialties of reputable wine dealers and shippers abroad .
a good negociant or shipper will not only be the man or the firm which has cornered the wines from the best vineyards , or the best parts of them ; ;
these are the wines the french themselves use for everyday drinking , for even in france virtually no one drinks the grands crus on a meal-to-meal basis .
and certainly , in the case of the beginner or the comparatively uninitiated wine drinker , the palate and the capacity for appreciation will not be ready for the grands crus as a steady diet without frequent recourse to crus of less renown .
some of them are very delicious indeed , and there are many good ones exported -- unfortunately , along with others not so good , and worse .
wine waiters are something else again ; ;
most of them , the world over , operate on the same principle by which justice is administered in france and some other latin countries : the customer is to be considered guilty of abysmal ignorance until proven otherwise , with the burden of proof on the customer himself .
) is for the most part a recondite affair , for manifestly , if everyone in the world who could afford the best wines also liked them , the supply would dry up in no time at all .
a really good wine waiter is , paradoxically , the guardian ( and not the purveyor ) of his cellar against the visigoths .
the one way to get around them -- short of knowing exactly what one wants and sticking to it -- is to frequent a single establishment until its wine waiter is persuaded that one is at least as interested in wine as in spending money .
wine bought from a dealer should ideally be allowed to rest for several weeks before it is served .
it does no harm for wine to stand on end for a matter of days , but in terms of months and years it is fatal .
otherwise , the cork dries and air enters to spoil it .
fat bottles , such as burgundies , have a way of rolling around in the bin and often need little props , such as a bit of cardboard or a chip of wood , to hold them in the proper reclining posture .
the best rule of thumb for detecting corked wine ( provided the eye has not already spotted it ) is to smell the wet end of the cork after pulling it : if it smells of wine , the bottle is probably all right ; ;
seasonal rises or drops in temperature are bad for wine : they age it prematurely .
prolonged vibration is also undesirable ; ;
if one lives near a subway or an express parkway , the solution is to have one's wines stored with a dealer and brought home a few at a time .
all in all , though , there is a good deal of nonsense expended over the preparations thought necessary for ordinary wine drinking ; ;
no one should wish to deny these purists the obvious pleasure they derive from all this , and to give fair warning where warning is due , no one who becomes fond of wines ever avoids acquiring some degree of purism ! !
a white wine , already at cool cellar temperature , may be adequately chilled in a bucket of ice and water or the freezing compartment of a refrigerator ( the former is far preferable ) in about fifteen minutes ; ;
though by no means an ideal procedure , a red wine may similarly be brought from the cellar to the dining room and opened twenty minutes or so before serving time .
but again , as one will have observed at any restaurant worth its salt , wine should be served in a large , tulip-shaped glass , which is never filled more than half full .
the only cardinal sin which may be committed in warming a wine is to force it by putting it next to the stove or in front of an open fire .
it should not be forgotten that wines mature fastest in half-bottles , less fast in full bottles , slowly in magnums -- and slower yet in tregnums , double magnums , jeroboams , methuselahs , and imperiales , respectively .
but white wines never ! !
thus , sauternes or barsacs should be very cold ; ;
over-chilling is an accepted method for covering up the faults of many a cheap or poor white wine , especially a dry wine -- and certainly less of a crime than serving a wine at a temperature which reveals it as unattractive .
to quote professor saintsbury : `` the last glass of claret or burgundy is as good as the first ; ;
this does not mean , though , that a red wine improves with prolonged aeration : there is a reasonable limit -- and wines kept over to the next meal or the next day , after they have once been opened , are never as good .
it should be remembered that their lasting qualities are appreciably shorter than those of milk .
by tradition , a red wine should be served at approximately room temperature -- if anything a little cooler -- and be aged enough for the tannin and acids to have worked out and the sediment have settled well .
very old red wine is often decanted so that the puckering , bitter elements which have settled to the bottom will not be mingled with the wine itself .
the cork should be pulled gradually and smoothly , and the lip of the bottle wiped afterward .
another school frowns on such a shortcut , and insists that after leaving the bin an old red wine should first stand on end for several days to allow the sediment to roll to the very bottom , after which the bottle may be gently eased to a tilted position on its side in the cradle .
the wine waiter will see to it that the bottles are taken from the bin and opened at least in time to warm and aerate , preferably allowed to stand on end for as long as possible and , perhaps in the case of very old wines , be decanted .
it may also be -- practically speaking -- a matter of good economy .
though there are many exceptions , which we have noted in preceding pages , white wine is as a rule best consumed between two and six years old , and red wines , nowadays , between three and ten .
the average claret is notably longer-lived than its opposite number , red burgundy .
if a red bordeaux of a good name and year is bitter or acid , or cloying and muddy-tasting , leave it alone for a while .
and alsatians may be .
giffen lost no time in visiting the plantation .
an excellent crop was expected that year .
giffen advised acceptance of this plan , citing the depressed market for land then prevailing and the large stock of provisions at the plantation .
early in january , 1844 he had a conference with henry and william in new orleans , and upon learning of gorham's intention , henry remonstrated calmly but firmly with his brother .
they were not capable of supporting themselves off the plantation , and louisiana law required their removal from the state .
the suggestion that giffen hire out the slaves was not realistic , since no planter would take the risk of having negroes who knew they were to be free living with his own slaves .
william , who did not write to gorham , told giffen that unless he could operate the plantation as usual for a year , he would sue `` amicably '' to protect his interests .
if william wished to continue operations for a year , why not simply leave the negroes undisturbed and pay them `` as high wages to remain there as are ever paid the labor of persons of their sex & age .
their having family ties on our plantation & the adjoining one would be a stronger inducement '' .
if not , he was willing to accede to william's wishes in any way that did not block his ultimate aim .
knowing the antipathy that existed in louisiana against increasing the number of free negroes , giffen suggested that palfrey bring them to boston at once , and then send them on to liberia .
in march there was a division of the slaves , and giffen carried out his instructions as nearly as possible .
`` i considered that your views would be best carried out '' , he explained , `` by taking women whose progeny will of course be free & more fully extend the philantrophy of emancipation .
the ages of the slaves ranged from sixty-five , for an old house servant , to an unnamed newborn child .
this cold reckoning of human worth in a legal paper , devoid of compassion or humanity , was all he needed .
old sam's sixty-five years had reduced his value to $150 ; ;
rose , a twelve-year-old with child-bearing potential , was worth $400 .
palfrey's brothers each received lots of sixteen negroes , and for bookkeeping purposes it was agreed that all lots were to be valued at $6,666.66 .
giffen extracted one concession from william : the house servants could be free at any time gorham thought expedient .
yet even if he could get the necessary approval , fourteen of his negroes could not be manumitted without special permission .
palfrey petitioned the state legislature to waive the requirement .
on march 11 the louisiana legislature voted unanimously to table the petition .
henry stormed into giffen's office waving a copy of the new orleans courier , shouting that the emancipation scheme had become a public affair , and that it would reach the `` ears of the people on the plantation , and make them restless & unhappy '' .
when giffen decided to charge him interest on the loan from john palfrey , gorham readily assented , vowing that in a matter of dollars and cents , his brothers would never have any cause to complain of him .
giffen had already urged him to journey south , if only for a few days to clear up matters .
palfrey told his wife of his intentions for the first time , and left for new orleans apprehensively invoking a special blessing of providence that he might be allowed to see his family again .
in both cases he desired information about placing the freedmen in homes once they arrived in the north .
mrs. child , who had once apologized for sending editor palfrey a book on slavery , now confided that she had helped one of henry palfrey's slaves escape to canada some years before , but asked him not to advertise the fact in louisiana .
at lexington , kentucky , palfrey consulted with cassius m. clay on the same subject , but with no apparent result .
instead of the expected `` annoyances '' due to the nature of his mission , he received many calling cards and invitations from `` gentlemen of mark , on whom i had no sort of claim , & have had many more invitations than i could accept '' .
the memory of this southern hospitality did not survive the trials of coming antislavery years and civil war .
he proceeded with his task bravely -- in his memoirs , at least -- before the `` passions of my neighbors should have time to boil too high '' .
the women by remaining behind condemned their children , born and unborn , to bondage .
only one objected , but palfrey soon convinced him that he ought to go with the others .
palfrey agreed ; ;
william's threat that under no conditions would he allow `` freedom-conscious '' slaves to mix with his own was not carried out , for the plantation continued in operation as before .
from cambridge , palfrey maintained a close interest in the welfare of his slaves .
should any slave change his mind and request to leave earlier , giffen was to provide passage at once .
giffen assured him that the captain and his mate had personally promised to treat the negroes with consideration .
the plantation was sold in january , 1845 , and palfrey thought the new owner ought to pay his people two months' wages .
the new owner at attakapas declined to enter into any philanthropic arrangement .
not all of palfrey's slaves were aboard the bashaw .
two of these were included in palfrey's lot .
after an initial rejection , which he attributed to a `` general excitement against abolition and emancipation '' , giffen bribed the right individuals on the jury , and got the permission without further delay .
slavery was prohibited in massachusetts by the terms of the constitution of 1780 , which declared `` all men are born free and equal '' .
an eyewitness recalled how awkward the red-turbaned colored women appeared as they curtseyed in the church doorway , and the diffidence the former slaves displayed while they listened to the few words that declared them free .
palfrey tried fruitlessly to place a negro boy in the hopedale community , but he had better luck in his other attempts .
this group had been palfrey's greatest worry since anna was in bad health , and her children were too young to work for their keep .
secretary of state dean rusk , a former rhodes scholar and mills college dean , has headed the rockefeller foundation and in that role expended large sums for international cultural exchange .
( `` in the late forties and fifties '' , coombs has declared in defining his role , `` two strong new arms were added to reinforce united states foreign policy economic assistance and military assistance .
)
ambassador-at-large averell harriman has returned to the capital with a collection of paintings that include renoir , cezanne , gauguin , van gogh , toulouse-lautrec , degas , matisse , picasso , and walt kuhn .
secretary of the treasury douglas dillon owns a prize monet , femmes dans un jardin .
unlike wilson , who at times seemed almost anti-intellectual in his earthy pragmatism .
an inveterate reader of books , he chose while working in detroit to live in the university community of ann arbor , almost forty miles away .
one of the president's special assistants , the harvard dean mcgeorge bundy , was co-author with henry l. stimson of the latter's classic memoir , on active service .
his wife , marion , is a portrait painter .
( `` it is always of sorrow to me when i find people who neither know nor understand music '' , he declared not long ago in proposing that white house prizes be awarded for music and art .
( `` artists are always at a new frontier '' , she claims .
) mrs. henry labouisse , wife of the new director of the foreign aid program , is the writer and lecturer eve curie .
at last count , sixteen former rhodes scholars ( see box on page 13 ) had been appointed to the administration , second in number only to its harvard graduates .
postmaster general j. edward day , who must deal with matters of postal censorship , is himself author of a novel , bartholf street , albeit one he was obliged to publish at his own expense .
william walton , a writer-turned-painter , has been a long-time friend of the president .
walton , after a wartime stint with time-life , to become bureau chief for the new republic .
walton , who soon made a break from journalism to become one of the capital's leading semi-abstract painters , vows that he and kennedy never once discussed art in those days .
during last year's campaign , kennedy asked walton , an utter novice in organization politics , to assist him .
walton , who served as a correspondent with general james gavin's paratroopers during the invasion of france , combines the soul of an artist with the lingo of a tough guy .
but his credentials are impeccable .
a man of great talent , he will continue to serve as a sort of presidential trouble-shooter , strictly ex officio , for culture .
udall , who comes from one of the mormon first-families of arizona , is a bluff , plain-spoken man with a lust for politics and a habit of landing right in the middle of the fight .
his private dining room has become a way station for visiting intellectuals such as c. p. snow , arnold toynbee , and aaron copland .
after promoting frost's appearance at the inauguration , he persuaded the poet to return several months later to give a reading to a select audience of cabinet members , members of congress , and other washington notables gathered in the state department auditorium .
his ideas in this respect , however , sometimes arouse critical response .
spokesmen for the nation's tradition-minded sculptors promptly claimed that udall was exiling the statue because of his own hostility to this art form .
hoping to cut down on such works , udall had proposed that a politician be at least fifty years departed before he is memorialized .
in the case of the borglum statue an interior aide was obliged to announce that there had been a misunderstanding and that the secretary had no desire to `` hustle '' it out of washington .
eleven others were introduced .
the hotly debated plan for the capital's franklin d. roosevelt memorial , a circle of huge tablets engraved with his speeches ( and promptly dubbed by one of its critics , `` instant stonehenge '' ) , is another of udall's headaches , since as supervisor of the national parks commission he will share in the responsibility for building it .
there have been indications that he hopes to redress that situation , commencing with the white house .
ever since the fire of 1812 destroyed the beautiful furniture assembled by president thomas jefferson , the white house has collected a hodgepodge of period pieces , few of them authentic or aesthetic .
not long after moving in she turned up a richly carved desk , hewed from the timbers of the british ship h.m.s. resolute and presented to president hayes by queen victoria .
later , browsing in an old issue of the gazette des beaux-arts , she found a description of a handsome gilt pier-table purchased in 1817 by president james monroe .
with its coating of gold radiator paint removed -- a gaucherie of some earlier tenant -- it will now occupy its rightful place in the oval blue room on the first floor of the white house .
the first lady appointed a fine arts advisory committee for the white house , to locate authentic pieces as well as to arrange ways to acquire them .
by rough estimate her committee , headed by henry francis du pont , contains three times as many republicans as democrats .
a curator has been appointed .
the american institute of interior designers is redecorating the white house library .
and part of a fabulous collection of vermeil hollowware , bequeathed to the white house by the late mrs. margaret thompson biddle , has been taken out of its locked cases and put on display in the state dining room .
one of the vexatious problems to first confront president kennedy was the property lying just across pennsylvania avenue from the white house .
while a senator , kennedy had unsuccessfully pushed a bill to preserve the belasco theater , as well as the dolley madison and the benjamin taylor houses , all scheduled for razing .
only a few days after moving into the white house .
then he called in his friend walton and turned over the problem to him , with instructions to work out what was best -- provided it didn't pile unnecessary burdens on the president .
one of the offices slated for reconstruction is the aged court of claims , diagonally across the street from the white house .
but judge marvin jones , senior member of the court , is an elderly gentleman who lives at the nearby metropolitan club and desires to walk to work .
there were aesthetic problems as well as political .
the old belasco theater , over which many people had grown sentimental , was only a shell of its former self after arduous years as a uso center .
`` the attempt to save the square's historic value '' , he declares , `` came half a century too late '' .
the buildings are mostly georgian .
but his is still a simple life relatively free of the female presence or influence , and he must go far , even though he may go fast , for sophisticated pleasures .
he is by no means the country boy he might have been in the last century , down from the hills with bear grease on his hair and a zeal for book learning in his heart .
and the automobiles that stream out of hanover each weekend , toward smith and wellesley and mount holyoke , are no less rakish than those leaving cambridge or west philadelphia .
the would-be sophisticate and the citybred youth adopt this air without embarrassment .
and this gives rise to an easy camaraderie probably unequaled elsewhere in the ivy league .
thus , when dartmouth's winter carnival -- widely recognized as the greatest , wildest , roaringest college weekend anywhere , any time -- was broadcast over a national television hookup , prexy john sloan dickey appeared on the screen in rugged winter garb , topped off by a tam-o'-shanter which he confessed had been acquired from a smith girl .
this carefree disdain for `` side '' cropped up again in the same television broadcast .
she must have looked temptingly pretty to the dean as he put the crown on her head .
no dartmouth man was surprised .
for example , groups regularly canoe down the connecticut river .
and these hardy travelers are not unappreciated today .
dartmouth's favorite and most characteristic recreation is skiing .
yet dartmouth still is the dominant member of the intercollegiate ski union , which includes the winter sports colleges of canada as well as those of this country .
they can hire a horse and go ski-joring behind him , or move out to oak hill , where there's a lift .
forty miles farther north is mount moosilauke , dartmouth's own mountain .
the lodge , built of hand-hewn virgin spruce , can handle fifty people for dining , sleeping , or lounging in its huge living room .
the cabins are equipped with bunks , blankets , and cooking equipment and are ideal bases for hikes and skiing trips .
under the auspices of the outing club , dartmouth also has the mountaineering club , which takes on tough climbs like mount mckinley , and bait & bullet , whose interests are self-evident , and even sports a woodman's team , which competes with other new england colleges in wood sawing and chopping , canoe races , and the like .
city boys find a lot of learning in the feel of an ax handle or in the sharp tang of a sawmill , come upon suddenly in a backwoods logging camp .
there is much to be said for such a college -- and dartmouth men have been accused of saying it too often and too loudly .
probably a lawyer once said it best for all time in the supreme court of the united states .
it fixed on dartmouth college , which was ready-made and just what the proctor ordered .
for a time there were two factions on the campus fighting for possession of the student body .
in 1817 the lawyers were generally debating the legal inviolability of private contracts and charters .
in an age of oratory , he was the king of orators , and both he himself and chief justice marshall were bathed in manly tears , as uncle dan'l reached his thundering climax :
''
this is not out of keeping with its origins , probably the most humble of any in the ivy group .
eleazar , pausing on the hanover plain , found its great forests and remoteness good and with his own hands built the first college hall , a log hut dedicated `` for the education & instruction of youth of the indian tribes in this land in reading , writing & all parts of learning which shall appear necessary and expedient for civilizing & christianizing children of pagans as well as in all liberal arts and sciences ; ;
it was a hardy undertaking , and wheelock's was indeed `` a voice crying in the wilderness '' .
the governor and his retinue thoughtfully brought with them a glorious silver punchbowl which is still one of the cherished possessions of the college .
a student orator `` produced tears from a great number of the learned '' even before the punch was served .
governor wentworth contributed an ox for a barbecue on the green beneath the three-hundred-foot pines , and a barrel of rum was broached .
future commencements were more decorous perhaps , but the number of graduates increased from the original four at a relatively slow pace .
the dormitories , including the beloved dartmouth hall , could barely house two hundred students in spartan fashion .
he transformed dartmouth from a small new hampshire institution into a national college .
and at his last commencement , in that year , dr. tucker and dartmouth were honored by the presence of distinguished academic visitors attesting to the new stature of the college .
dartmouth is numerically still a small college today , with approximately twenty-nine hundred undergraduates .
over 450 different schools are usually represented in each entering class .
about two-thirds of the boys now come from public schools .
it is , in fact , the only college in the ivy group .
all three are purposely kept small , with a current total enrollment of about two hundred .
students of the college who are candidates for the a.b. degree and can satisfy the academic requirements of the medical and business schools , may enter either of these associated schools at the beginning of senior year , thus completing the two-year postgraduate course in one year .
so dartmouth is moving closer to the others in the ivy group .
it has not been a well-known school for any part of the span the other ivies have enjoyed .
it has come on with a rush in more significant areas .
but dartmouth preserves its youthful brashness even in its educational attitudes , and , although some of its experiments may still be in the testing stage , they make for lively copy .
the person who left the buggy there has never been identified .
there are , of course , many weaknesses in any case against emma .
she had no way of knowing in advance whether an opportunity for murder existed .
if she avoided the train and hired a buggy , the stableman might have recognized her .
uncle john vinnicum morse was the immediate popular suspect .
lizzie stated during the inquest that while her father and uncle were in the sitting room the afternoon before the murders , she had been disturbed by their voices and had closed her door , even though it was a very hot day .
at that time jennings had a young law associate named arthur s. phillips .
he said morse and borden had quarreled violently in the house that day , information which must have come from lizzie .
the new bedford standard-times has reported knowlton as saying , long after the trial , that if he only knew what borden said during his conversation with morse , he would have convicted `` somebody '' .
he said he would have convicted `` somebody '' .
they were a vagabond lot and considered to be shady and undesirable characters .
these officers found no incriminating information .
he said he returned from the visit to his niece on the 11:20 streetcar .
fall river is not a fashionable town .
if this woman had delayed until after 11:20 to start her shopping , she would have had little time in which to prepare the substantial meal that was eaten at dinner in those days .
police did make an attempt to check on morse's alibi .
questioned further , morse said that there had been four or five priests riding on the same car with him .
we do know that morse left the house before nine o'clock .
morse said borden let him out and locked the screen door .
he met nobody he knew on this walk .
morse testified that while he was having breakfast in the dining room , mrs. borden told the servant , `` bridget , i want you to wash these windows today '' .
she said it was after she returned from her vomiting spell in the back yard that mrs. borden told her to wash the windows .
morse's knowledge of what mrs. borden told bridget could indicate that he had returned secretly to the house and was hidden there .
and despite knowlton's attempts to show that the house was locked up tighter than a drum , this was not true .
it was unlocked all the time she was washing windows .
mrs. borden would not have been alarmed if she saw morse with an ax or hatchet in his hand .
mrs. borden would have had no reason to disbelieve him and he could have approached close enough to her to swing before she could cry out .
if he took an earlier streetcar than the 11:20 on his return , he could have arrived at the borden house shortly after mr. borden came home .
with the second murder over , he could have left , hidden the weapon in some vacant lot or an abandoned cistern in the neighborhood .
there was no close examination of his clothes for bloodstains , and certainly no scientific test was made of them .
the motive may have been the mysterious quarrel ; ;
on the other side of the ledger is the fact that he did see his niece and the woman with whom she was staying .
he said he had promised mrs. borden to return in time for dinner and that was close to the time when he did turn up at the borden house .
he wrote :
neither had any interest in the deaths ; ;
both he and bridget were exonerated by lizzie herself '' .
although pearson disbelieved almost everything lizzie said , and read a sinister purpose into almost everything she did , he happily accepted her statement about bridget as the whole truth .
the exoneration pearson speaks of is not an exoneration , but lizzie's expression of her opinion , as reported in the testimony of assistant marshal fleet .
fleet asked the same question about bridget , and lizzie pointed out that as far as she knew bridget had gone up to her room before her father's murder and came down when she called her .
she told police about the prospective tenant she had heard quarreling with her father some weeks before the murders , but she said she thought he was from out of town because she heard him mention something about talking to his partner .
at the inquest she was asked specifically whether she knew anybody her father had bad feelings toward , or who had bad feelings toward her father .
they have not been friendly for years '' .
her statement certainly was true ; ;
when i interviewed kirby , who as a boy picked up pears in the borden yard , i asked if anybody else in the household besides lizzie and morse had been under any suspicion at the time of the murders .
`` how about bridget sullivan '' ? ?
`` oh , she was just the maid there '' , he replied , waving a hand to indicate how completely unimportant she was .
everyone somehow manages to overlook completely the fact that , as far as we know , there were exactly two people in and about the house at the time of both murders : lizzie borden and bridget sullivan .
true , it is no longer cricket for the butler to be the killer in mystery fiction , but we are dealing here with actual people in real life and not imaginary characters and situations .
there are also other factors that require closer examination .
the people who believe and retell the legend have apparently never troubled to read the trial testimony and do not know that the maid changed her testimony on several key points , always to the detriment of lizzie .
bridget was born in ireland , one of fourteen children .
she worked as a domestic , first in newport for a year , and then in south bethlehem , pennsylvania , for another year .
i have previously described how , during the week of the murder , bridget spent the first few hot days scrubbing and ironing clothes .
a gentleman of the old school , mr. upton possessed intellectual power , ample means , and withal , was a devoted christian .
her mother also was a person of superior mind and broad interests .
she possessed an observant eye , a retentive memory , and a critical faculty .
she named 48 items , and said there were `` many more things which it would take too long to write '' .
lucy upton was graduated from the salem high school when few colleges , only oberlin and elmira , were open to women ; ;
a picture of her in high school comes from a younger schoolmate , albert s. flint , friend of her brother winslow , and later , like winslow , a noted astronomer .
the study of greek was the distinctive mark of boys destined to go to college , and lucy upton too expected to go to college and take the full classical course offered to men .
with four younger children at home , lucy stepped into her mother's role , and even after the brothers and sisters were grown , she was her father's comfort and stay until he died in 1879 .
when her brother winslow became a student at brown university in 1874 , she wrote him about a course in history he was taking under professor diman : `` what is prof. diman's definition of civilization , and take the world through , is its progress ever onward , or does it retrograde at times ? ?
'' and that she proceeded to do .
whatever was the science in the high school course for the time being , that was my favorite study .
her study of history was persistently pursued .
la croix on the customs of the middle ages , 16 chapters of bryce `` and liked it more and more '' ; ;
lecky and stanley's eastern church .
lucy's correspondence with brother winslow during his college days was not entirely taken up with academic studies .
also lucy and winslow had a private contest to see which one could make the most words from the letters in `` importunately '' .
there was another family interest also .
at different times he served as glee-club and choir leader and as organist .
winslow upton after graduation from brown university and two years of graduate study , accepted a position at the harvard observatory .
and after 1883 , was professor of astronomy at brown university .
after her father's death , lucy and her youngest sister lived for a few years with winslow in washington , d.c. .
lucy was a lively part of the household .
winslow , as his daughters eleanor and margaret recall , used to characterize her as `` our iron sister '' .
as a matter of fact , albert s. flint expressed his conviction that `` her physical strength , her mental power , her lively interest in all objects about her and her readiness to serve her fellow beings '' would have led her `` to a distinguished career amongst the noted women of this country '' .
they were not sufficiently challenging however , and she resigned in 1887 , to go to germany with her brother winslow and his family while he was there on study .
what was called an `` accidental meeting '' with miss packard in washington turned her attention to spelman .
after correspondence with miss packard and to the joy of miss packard and miss giles , she came to atlanta , in the fall of 1888 , to help wherever needed , although there was then no money available to pay her a salary .
her students have spoken of the exacting standards of scholarship and of manners and conduct she expected and achieved from the students ; ;
of `` her exquisiteness of dress '' , `` her well-modulated voice that went straight to the hearts of the hearers '' ; ;
and her close knowledge of individual students .
and as graduates gratefully recall , she drew on her purse as well .
under miss upton , the work of the year 1909-10 went forward without interruption .
she had taught classes in botany , astronomy ( with the aid of a telescope ) , geometry , and psychology .
both had eager and inquiring minds ; ;
both loved the out-of-doors , including mountain climbing and horseback riding .
so strenuous it was physically , with its days of horseback riding over rough roads that it seems an amazing feat of endurance for both miss packard and miss upton .
at the fifteenth anniversary ( 1896 ) as already quoted , miss upton projected with force and eloquence the spelman of the future as a college of first rank , with expanding and unlimited horizons .
her services to the school for many years were of a very high character , and i have often thought that one of the buildings should be named for her '' .
at the meeting of the board of trustees , on march 3 , 1910 , miss upton presented the annual report of the president .
that the enrollment showed an increase of boarding students as was desired ; ;
she urged the importance of more thorough preparation for admission .
with the fund in hand , the debt on the boilers had been paid ; ;
walks laid ; ;
miss upton spoke gratefully of the response of spelman graduates and negro friends in helping to raise the fund , and their continuing efforts to raise money for greatly needed current expenses .
two bequests were recorded : one of $200 under the will of mrs. harriet a. copp of los angeles ; ;
miss upton told the trustees that the death of miss giles was `` the sorest grief '' the seminary had ever been called upon to bear .
the removal of miss packard 18 years earlier had caused them great sorrow , but they still had miss giles .
`` yet spelman has strong , deep roots , and will live for the blessing of generations to come '' .
and when school closed , she was unable to travel to massachusetts .
she died on august sixth .
but she decided to stay at spelman .
soon the office work claimed all her time .
quiet and energetic , cheerful and calm , she too was a power in the development of the seminary .
she served as secretary in the seminary office for 25 years , and was in charge of correspondence , records , and bookkeeping .
and so do the hearts of students and of teachers .
with infinite patience she responded to every call , no matter at what cost to herself , and to her all went , for she was sure to have the needed information or word of cheer .
in those vocational programs organized with smith-hughes money , there may be a close tie between the labor union and a local employer on the one hand and the vocational teacher on the other .
the apprentice program will involve further education on a part-time basis , usually at night , perhaps using some of the same equipment of the high school .
formally organized vocational programs supported by federal funds allow high school students to gain experience in a field of work which is likely to lead to a full-time job on graduation .
the `` distributive education '' program operates in a similar way , with arrangements between the school and employers in merchandising fields .
he receives remuneration for his work .
adult education courses , work-study programs of various sorts -- these are all evidence of a continuing interest of the schools in furthering educational opportunities for out-of-school youth .
if the student drops out of high school , the break with the school is even more complete .
indeed , in some periods of our history and in some neighborhoods the job opportunities have been so good that undoubtedly a great many boys who were potential members of the professions quit school at an early age and went to work .
i make no attempt to measure the enduring satisfaction and material well-being of a man who went to work on graduation from high school and was highly successful in the business which he entered .
but in the next decades the nation needs to educate for the professions all the potential professional talent .
in the negro neighborhoods and also to some extent in the mixed neighborhoods the problem may be one of identification and motivation .
undoubtedly far more can be done in the lower grades in this regard in the negro schools .
and the fact remains that there are today few shining examples of negroes in positions of intellectual leadership .
quite the contrary , as i can testify from personal experience as a former university president .
the absence of successful negroes in the world of scholarship and science has tended to tamp down enthusiasm among negro youth for academic careers .
here again we run into the roadblock that negroes do not like to be designated as negroes in the press .
this is a problem to which leaders of opinion , both negro and white , should devote far more attention .
vocational education
first and foremost , vocational courses should not replace courses which are essential parts of the required academic program for graduation .
however , for slow learners and prospective dropouts these courses ought to begin earlier .
they realize the relevance of what they are learning to their future careers , and this sense of purpose is carried over to the academic courses which they are studying at the same time .
this last point is important because if high school pupils are aware that few , if any , graduates who have chosen a certain vocational program have obtained a job as a consequence of the training , the whole idea of relevance disappears .
those who , because of population mobility and the reputed desire of employers to train their own employees , would limit vocational education to general rather than specific skills ought to bear in mind the importance of motivation in any kind of school experience .
i intend to include under the term all the practical courses open to boys and girls .
practically all of these practical skills are of such a nature that a degree of mastery can be obtained in high school sufficient to enable the youth to get a job at once on the basis of the skill .
to be sure , in tool-and-die work and in the building trades , the first job must be often on an apprentice basis , but two years of half-time vocational training enables the young man thus to anticipate one year of apprentice status .
of course , it can be argued that an ability to write english correctly and with some degree of elegance is a marketable skill .
in a sense almost all high school and college courses could be considered as vocational to the extent that later in life the student in his vocation ( which may be a profession ) will be called upon to use some of the skills developed and the competence obtained .
perhaps a course in typewriting might be regarded as the exception which proves the rule .
most of our largest cities have one or more separate vocational or technical high schools .
the neighborhood high schools are not , strictly speaking , comprehensive schools , because some of the boys and girls may be attending a vocational or technical high school instead of the local school .
he prefers to designate such schools as `` general '' high schools .
the reason is that there is a lack of interest on the part of the community .
the separate vocational or technical high schools in the large cities must be reckoned as permanent institutions .
it is not often realized to what degree certain trades are in many communities closed areas of employment , except for a lucky few .
it is far more difficult in many communities to obtain admission to an apprentice program which involves union approval than to get into the most selective medical school in the nation .
one vocational instructor in a city vocational school , speaking of his course in a certain field , said he had no difficulty placing all students in jobs outside of the city .
in a far distant part of the united states , i was talking to an instructor about a boy who in the twelfth grade was doing special work .
`` oh , he'll be a plumber '' , came the answer .
i asked .
`` he has very good connections '' .
ideally these schools should be so located that one or more should be in the area where demand for practical courses is at the highest .
located in a bad slum area now undergoing redevelopment , this school and its program are especially tailored to the vocational aims of its students .
i discovered in the course of a visit there that almost all the pupils were negroes .
the physical facilities at dunbar are impressive , but more impressive is the attitude of the pupils .
in the united states , where half of the world crop is grown , soybeans are processed for their edible oil .
soybeans are extensively processed into a remarkable number of food products in the orient .
soybean flour , grits , flakes , `` milk '' , and curd can be bought in the united states .
they are used mainly for their oil .
blanched peanuts , as prepared for making peanut butter or for eating as nuts , are roasted seeds whose seedcoats have been rubbed off .
in western europe and north america , where the level of economic development is higher , grains and other seed products furnish less than one-third of the food consumed .
people depend less on seeds for foods in australia , new zealand , and argentina , where extensive grazing lands support sheep or cattle , and the consumption of meat is high .
most of the grain is fed to swine and dairy cows and lesser amounts to beef cattle and poultry .
the rest is used for human food and industrial products .
more than 200 million tons of seeds and seed products are fed to livestock annually in the united states .
the demand for food is so great in the world that little arable land can be given over to growing the nonfood crops .
chief among the seed crops grown primarily for industrial uses are the oil-bearing seeds -- flax , castor , tung ( nuts from the china wood-oil tree ) , perilla ( from an oriental mint ) , and oiticica ( from a brazilian tree ) .
these oils develop hard , smooth films when they dry and form resinlike substances .
one of the finest of artists' oils comes from poppy seeds .
some are used in paints along with drying oils .
castor oil , made from castorbeans , has gone out of style as a medicine .
almond oil , another nondrying oil , was once used extensively in perfumery to extract flower fragrances .
liquid fats from all these oilseeds enter into the manufacture of soaps for industry and the household and of glycerin for such industrial uses as making explosives .
solid fats from the seeds of the mahua tree , the shea tree , and the coconut palm are used to make candles in tropical countries .
corn and wheat supply most of the starch in the united states , canada , and australia .
starch is used in the paper , textile , and food-processing industries and in a multitude of other manufacturing operations .
today the yearly import into the united states of locust bean gum is more than 15 million pounds ; ;
the discovery during the second world war that guar gum was similar to imported locust gum increased its cultivation in western asia and initiated it in the united states .
guar gum thickens salad dressings and stabilizes ice cream .
once regarded as an agricultural nuisance , psyllium was sold in the 1930's as a mechanical laxative under 117 different brands .
the seeds of hard , fibrous , stony fruits , called nuts , provide highly concentrated foods , oils , and other materials of value .
the kernels of brazil nuts , cashews , coconuts , filberts , hazelnuts , hickory nuts , pecans , walnuts , and pine nuts are predominantly oily .
chestnuts are starchy .
the world production of familiar seed nuts -- almonds , brazil nuts , filberts , and the english walnuts -- totals about 300 thousand tons annually .
the oil palm of west africa yields edible oil from both the flesh and the seed or kernel of its fruit .
exports from producing countries in terms of equivalent oil were a little more than 1 million tons , about half of which was palm kernels or oil from them and about half was palm oil .
the soap nut , which owes its sudsing power to natural saponins ; ;
the aromatic sassafras nut of south america ; ;
a forest crop that has not been extensively cultivated is ivory nuts from the tagua palm .
it is used for making buttons and other small , hard objects of turnery .
the color and shape of seeds have long made them attractive for ornaments and decorations .
bead tree seeds are the necklaces of south pacific islanders and the eyes of buddha dolls in cuba .
handmade christmas wreaths and trees often contain a variety of seeds collected during the year .
although science has given us more effective materials , preparations from anise , castorbean , colchicum , nux vomica , mustard , fennel , and stramonium are familiar to many for the relief of human ailments .
peanut and sesame oils often are used as carriers or diluents for medicines administered by injection .
the common spices , flavorings , and condiments make up this group .
single-seeded dry fruits used for flavoring include several of the carrot family , such as cumin , dill , fennel , and angelica .
white pepper is the ground seed of the common black pepper fruit .
it is a main flavoring for halvah , the candy of the middle east .
beverages are made from seeds the world over .
world production of coffee broke all previous records in 1959 and 1960 at more than 5 million tons .
cocoa , chocolate , and cocoa butter come from the ground seeds of the cacao tree .
several soft drinks contain extracts from kola nuts , the seed of the kola tree cultivated in the west indies and south america .
the japanese sake is wine fermented from rice grain .
beer , generally fermented from barley , is an old alcoholic beverage .
brewers today use corn , rice , and malted barley .
seed crops hold a prominent place in the agricultural economy of the united states .
cereal grains , oilseeds , and dry beans and peas account for about 57 percent of the farm value of all crops raised .
seeds furnish about 40 percent of the total nutrients consumed by all livestock .
seeds are the essential raw materials for milling grain , baking , crushing oilseed , refining edible oil , brewing , distilling , and mixing feed .
the value of products from these industries was 15.8 billion dollars , of which about one-third was created by manufacturing processes .
cereal grains furnish about one-fourth of the total food calories in the american diet and about one-third of the total nutrients consumed by all livestock and poultry .
to keep 'em scattered somewhat and yet herd 'em was called `` loose herdin' '' .
cattle were inclined to remain in a territory with which they were acquainted .
yet there were always some that moved farther and farther out , seekin' grass and water .
cattle would drift day and night in a blizzard till it was over .
you had to go with 'em or wait till the storm was over , and follow .
the cowboy made a technical distinction in reference to the number of them animals .
but when a large number were `` bunched up '' or `` banded up '' , and marched away from their home range , as long as they stayed together the group was said to be a `` drift '' .
drifts usually happened only with cattle , for hosses had 'nough sense to avoid 'em , and to find shelter for 'emselves .
followin' such an event there was usually a harvest of `` fallen hides '' , and the ranchers needed skinnin' knives instead of brandin' irons .
cattle which died from them winter storms were referred to as the `` winter kill '' .
this term was also used by the cowboy in the sense of a human showin' fight , as one cowhand was heard to say , `` he arches his back like a mule in a hailstorm '' .
cattle brought into a range from a distance were called `` immigrants '' .
this word was first applied to the imported hot-blooded cattle , but later was more commonly used as reference to a human tenderfoot .
because holstein cattle weren't a beef breed , they were rarely seen on a ranch , though one might be found now and then for the milk supply .
a `` cattaloe '' was a hybrid offspring of buffalo and cattle .
a `` wet herd '' was a herd of cattle made up entirely of cows , while `` wet stuff '' referred to cows givin' milk .
cows givin' no milk were knowed as `` strippers '' .
the most common reference to `` wet stock '' was with the meanin' that such animals had been smuggled across the rio grande after bein' stolen from their rightful owners .
`` mixed herd '' meant a herd of mixed sexes , while a `` straight steer herd '' was one composed entirely of steers , and when the cowman spoke of `` mixed cattle '' , he meant cattle of various grades , ages , and sexes .
`` shootin' 'em out '' was gettin' cattle out of a corral onto the range .
to stir cattle up and get 'em heated and excited was to `` mustard the cattle '' , and the act was called `` ginnin' 'em 'round '' , or `` chousin' 'em '' .
a cow rose from the ground rear end first .
it was when she was in this position that the name `` prayin' cow '' was suggested to the cowboy .
`` on the hoof '' was a reference to live cattle and was also used in referrin' to cattle travelin' by trail under their own power as against goin' by rail .
a general classification given grass-fed cattle was `` grassers '' .
the cow , unlike a bull or steer , kept her eyes open and her mind on her business when chargin' , and a cow `` on the prod '' or `` on the peck '' was feared by the cowhand more than any of his other charges .
the first cattle the injuns saw under the white man's control were the ox teams of the early freighters .
rarely did a trail herd pass through the injun country on its march north that it wasn't stopped to receive demand for `` wohaw '' .
any animal could when travelin' fast , be sent heels over head by the simple process of overtakin' the brute , seizin' its tail , and givin' the latter a pull to one side .
though the slightest yank was frequently capable of producin' results , many men assured success through a turn of the tail 'bout the saddle horn , supplemented sometimes , in the case of cattle , by a downward heave of the rider's leg upon the strainin' tail .
it required both a quick and swift hoss and a darin' rider .
when the cowboy used the word `` tailin's '' , he meant stragglers .
from a pen of wild bulls one would be released , and with much yellin' a cowhand'd take after 'im .
rammin' one horn of a downed steer into the ground to hold 'im down was called `` peggin' '' .
an animal covered with splotches or spots of different colors was called a `` brindle '' or `` brockle '' .
a `` mealynose '' was a cow or steer of the longhorn type , with lines and dots of a color lighter'n the rest of its body 'round the eyes , face , and nose .
`` sabinas '' was a spanish word used to describe cattle of red and white peppered and splotched colorin' .
near the southern border , cattle of the early longhorn breed whose coloration was black with a lineback , with white speckles frequently appearin' on the sides and belly , were called `` zorrillas '' .
`` yeller bellies '' were cattle of mexican breed splotched on flank and belly with yellerish color .
such an animal has frequently been the downfall of the rustler .
the countin' of cattle in a pasture without throwin' 'em together for the purpose was called a `` pasture count '' .
this method of countin' was usually done at the request , and in the presence , of a representative of the bank that held the papers against the herd .
a `` book count '' was the sellin' of cattle by the books , commonly resorted to in the early days , sometimes much to the profit of the seller .
this became a common byword durin' the boom days when eastern and foreign capital were so eager to buy cattle interests .
his saloon was a meetin' place for influential wyoming cattlemen , and one year durin' a severe blizzard , when his herd-owner customers were wearin' long faces , he said , `` cheer up , boys , whatever happens , the books won't freeze '' .
`` range delivery '' meant that the buyer , after examinin' the seller's ranch records and considerin' his rep'tation for truthfulness , paid for what the seller claimed to own , then rode out and tried to find it .
no matter by what name cattle were called , there was no denyin' that they not only saved texas from financial ruin , but went far toward redeemin' from a wilderness vast territories of the northwest .
the first use of the word `` rustler '' was as a synonym for `` hustler '' , becomin' an established term for any person who was active , pushin' , and bustlin' in any enterprise .
eventually herdin' the hosses was spoken of as `` hoss rustlin' '' , and the wrangler was called the `` hoss rustler '' .
it was john who found the lion tracks .
he stifled the comanche yell and let john lead him straight toward the nearby black volcanic mountain .
on the south it ended sharply as though the lava had been cut off there suddenly .
kearton focussed his field glasses .
as they watched , jones rode straight for the reef .
the dogs were working a trail -- lion ? ?
the pack had made a bend to the north , swinging back toward the reef , and kearton and ulyate could hear them faintly .
`` not yet '' , cautioned ulyate .
there was sounder , too , also a veteran of the north rim , and rastus and the rake from a pack of english fox-hounds , and a collie from a london pound , and simba , a terrier .
jones was galloping close behind them leaning down , cheering them on .
ulyate said , and kearton touched a match to the pile of grass , blew on it and flame licked out .
`` that will fetch the gang and tell the colonel where we are '' .
then there was a chorus of wild barking and baying .
kearton and ulyate looked at each other and began to gallop toward the sound .
at the base of the rocky hillside , they left their horses and climbed on foot .
nice country to meet a lion in face to face .
ulyate drew back with a start , and put finger to lips , almost afraid to move or whisper lest it set her off , `` the dogs have got her bayed .
and when they had drawn back a step he added : `` jones is sitting on his horse right in front of her .
and he hasn't even got a knife on him .
careful , don't disturb her '' .
she was standing on a flat rock three feet above ground and when she saw him she rose to full height and roared , opening her mouth wide , lashing her tail , and stamping at the rock with both forefeet in irritation , as much as to say : `` how dare you disturb me in my sacred precinct '' ? ?
he moved forward to within thirty-five feet of her , being careful , because he knew the female is less predictable than the male .
of the thirty-four , seventeen had been killed by lions , and eleven out of the seventeen by lionesses .
he threw the lasso .
even then , if she took one step forward he could catch her .
jones then recoiled his rope and threw again , this time hitting her on the back but failing to encircle her .
while jones , on the other hand , appeared perfectly confident and ulyate decided perhaps that was the answer .
but now she sank lower to the rock .
her tail no longer lashed .
she was rested and could mount a charge .
at this moment , loveless and means arrived , crashing through the undergrowth with their horses , and distracted her , and she ran off a short distance and jumped into a crevice between two rocks .
`` we've got to get her out of there '' ! !
bring me the firecrackers '' .
lighting one he pitched it into the crevice , and the lioness left off mauling the dogs and departed .
called out means as she ran .
for two hours they drove her from one strong point to another along the side of the reef , trying to maneuver her onto the plain where they could get a good throw .
it was hot .
the men were tired too .
and the sun was beginning to go down .
`` i'll get a pole '' , jones said finally , `` and i'll poke a noose over her head '' ! !
ulyate made no comment but his face showed what he thought of poking ropes over lions' heads with poles , and of course these were the lions of fifty years ago , not the gentler ones of today , and this one was angry , with good reason .
`` it won't work , colonel '' .
but without waiting for them to try it , she scattered the dogs and shot down the reef and out across the plain .
john himself was bruised and clawed from head to tail , but he was in this fight to the finish , running almost as strongly now as in the morning .
she had chosen the spot well .
`` careful , now '' , jones warned .
very slowly he maneuvered his rawboned bay gelding , edging closer , watching for a chance to throw , but ready to spin and run , rope whining about his head , horse edging tensely under him , but the gelding was obedient and responded and was not paralyzed by the close proximity of the lion .
means edged closer .
means spit and edged on .
the pony was sidewise to her .
however nothing on four legs was supposed to be faster than a lion over a short distance , unless it was a cheetah .
means spun and spurred .
she was closing and within one more bound would have been able to reach the rear end of the bay , but -- and here jones and loveless and ulyate were holding breath for all they were worth -- she never quite caught up that last bound .
then gradually he began to pull away .
photos showed later that she'd been about six feet from means .
how much head start ? ?
that was the whole question .
the lioness quickly changed front , when she saw she couldn't catch means , and made for jones .
somewhere in the few scant yards of head start was the determining point .
this new position , however , gave the ropers a better chance .
so : means edged around on the north side of her , jones moved in from the south .
he succeeded almost too well , because once she rose as if to charge , and he half wheeled his horse -- he was within fifty feet -- but she sank back .
kearton began shouting , `` wait , wait -- the camera's jammed '' ! !
he raced by within twenty feet of her , roped her around the neck , but a lioness' neck is short and thick and with a quick twist she slipped the noose off .
but the time came when a church that had no part in the missionary movement was looked upon as deficient in its essential life .
the most serious weakness of the ecumenical movement today is that it is generally regarded as the responsibility of a few national leaders in each denomination and a few interdenominational executives .
they may even dismiss it from their minds as something that concerns only the `` ecclesiastical rover boys '' , as someone has dubbed them , who like to go to national and international assemblies , and have expense accounts that permit them to do so .
the next stage ahead is that of making it thoroughly at home in the local community .
the front line of advance is where witnessing and worshiping congregations of different traditions exist side by side .
as things now stand , there is a grievous disparity between the unity in christ which we profess in ecumenical meetings and the complacent separateness of most congregations on any main street in the nation .
the crux of ecumenical advance is an even more personalized matter than the relation between congregations in the same community .
it is here that the local and ecumenical must meet .
it has become almost trite to say that the ecumenical movement must be `` carried down to the grass roots '' .
it implies two misconceptions .
the truth , however , is that the ecumenical church is just the local church in its own true character as an integral unit of the whole people of god throughout the world .
however needed this may be , the fundamental problem is not information but active commitment to the total mission of the church of christ in the world .
it is hardly possible to emphasize this too much .
the idea that it is a feature of all religions is entirely mistaken .
their characteristic experience is that of the individual at an altar or a shrine rather than that of a continuing social group with a distinctive kind of fellowship .
what is now called christian fellowship is often little more than the social chumminess of having a gracious time with the kind of people one likes .
it is an experience of a new depth of community derived from an awareness of the corporate indwelling of christ in his people .
this may mean having fellowship in the church with people with whom , on the level of merely human agreeableness , we might prefer not to have any association at all .
whenever a congregation really sees itself as a unit in the universal church , in vital relation with the whole body of christ and participating in his mission to the world , a necessary foundation-stone of the ecumenical movement has been laid .
the local and the ecumenical are one .
each viewpoint is valid if it is organically related to the other .
our difficulty arises when either viewpoint shuts out the other .
divergent perspectives
with great difficulty he made his way from his native hungary to geneva to renew his contacts as a member of the provisional committee for the world council of churches .
they were bifocals .
it is , he said , a bifocal vision , which can see both the near-at-hand and the distant and keep a christian in right relation to both .
on the one hand , there are ecumenists who are so stirred by the crises of the church in its encounter with the world at large that they have no eyes for what the church is doing in their own town .
her concern for the natives of borrioboola-gha was so intense that she quite forgot and neglected her son peepy ! !
on the other hand , many a pastor is so absorbed in ministering to the intimate , personal needs of individuals in his congregation that he does little or nothing to lead them into a sense of social responsibility and world mission .
it would hardly be an exaggeration to say that ninety per cent of the energy of most churches -- whether in terms of finance or spiritual concern -- is poured into the private and domestic interests of the members .
the gap between the ecumenical perspective and the parish perspective appears most starkly in a church in any of our comfortable suburbs .
it is growing in numbers .
it has a beautiful edifice .
it provides pastoral care for the sick and troubled .
it draws young people into the circle of those who continue the life of the church from generation to generation .
but what is this church doing to help its members understand their roles as christians in the world ? ?
it is not stirring them to confront the racial tensions of today with the mind of christ .
it is not making them sensitive to the sub-christian level of much of our economic and industrial life .
it is not developing an awareness of the new kind of missionary strategy that is called for as young churches emerge in asia and africa .
it is not disturbing them by thoughts of their christian responsibility in relation to the world .
there is a humorous but revealing story about a rancher who owned a large slice of texas and who wanted to have on it everything that was necessary for a completely pleasant community .
desiring to fill the only remaining lack , he selected the best site on the ranch for a chapel and spared no expense in erecting it .
`` why , no , ma'am '' , he replied , `` this church belongs to me '' ! !
as long as the congregation regards the church as `` our '' church , or the minister thinks of it as `` my '' church , just so long the ecumenical movement will make no significant advance .
local embodiment of the whole
it would doubtless be greatly surprised to be told that in failing to be ecumenical it is really failing to be the church of christ .
yet a crowd came out to see some fresh kids from the city try to match the boys from the neighboring farms ; ;
this was a bitterly fought game , carrying almost as much grudge as a fist fight , with no friendliness exhibited between the teams except the formal politeness that accompanied the setting forth of ground rules and agreements on balls that went into the crowd .
at one point in the game when the skinny old man in suspenders who was acting as umpire got in the way of a thrown ball and took it painfully in the kidneys , he lay there unattended while players and spectators wrangled over whether the ball was `` dead '' or the base runners were free to score .
when the visitors , after losing this game , rode along the village streets toward home , the youngsters who could keep abreast of them for a moment or two screamed triumphantly , `` you bunch of hay-shakers ! !
baseball was surely the national game in those days , even though professional baseball may have been merely a business .
young men in school could look forward to playing ball for money in a dozen different places , even if they failed to make the major leagues .
even a city of thirty thousand might have six baseball teams , sponsored by grocers and hardware merchants or department stores , that played two or three times a week throughout the summer , usually in the cool of the evening , before an earnest and partisan audience who did not begrudge a quarter each , or even more , to be dropped into a hat when the game was half over .
his face was always in the newspapers , sometimes in cartoons that seemed nearly as large as life .
boys no longer bothered learning to bunt and even school kids scorned to `` choke up '' on a bat as willie keeler and the famous hitters of another day had done .
lou gehrig was given the nickname buster , and he ran ruth a close race in home runs .
ruth was a delinquent boy still , but he was in every way a great ball player who was out to win the game and occasionally risked a cracked bone to do it .
one who , for a time , succeeded best and was still the sorriest of all was charles arthur shires , who called himself , in the newspapers , art the great , or the great shires .
he was given to public carousing and to acting the clown on the diamond ; ;
( this made a sportswriter named pegler wonder in print if art had worn this armament when he defeated his manager .
in his minor way charles arthur shires was perhaps more typical of his era than ruth was , for he was but one of many young men who laid waste their talents in these scott fitzgerald days for the sake of earning space in the newspapers .
or who ingested strange objects , like live fish ; ;
or who essayed to down full bottles of illicit gin without pausing for breath .
but the twenties were not all insanity and a striving after recognition .
while fifty years before , albert goodwill spalding , secretary of the chicago ball club of the national league , could write earnestly to the manager of the buffalo club and request a guarantee of one hundred dollars for a baseball game in august , in this golden era a game at the yankee stadium might bring in nearly a hundred thousand dollars at the gate .
the greatest team of this period was unquestionably the new york yankees , bought by brewery millions and made into a ball club by men named ed barrow and miller huggins .
ruth himself , still owning his farm in massachusetts and an interest in the massachusetts cigar business that printed his round boyish face on the wrappers , had led the parade down from fenway park , followed by pitchers carl mays , leslie `` joe '' bush , waite hoyt , herb pennock , and sam jones , catcher wally schang , third baseman joe dugan ( who completed the `` playboy trio '' of ruth , dugan , and hoyt ) , and shortstop everett scott .
the deeds of this team , through two seasons and in the two world's series that followed , have been written and talked about until hardly a word is left to be said .
babe ruth , as he always did in the stadium , played right field to avoid having the sun in his eyes , and tommy thevenow , a rather mediocre hitter who played shortstop for the st. louis cardinals , knocked a ball with all his might into the sharp angle formed by the permanent stands and the wooden bleachers , where ruth could not reach it .
but , as he snarled unhappily when the inning was over , `` not a sonofabitch in the place would tell me '' , so little tommy ran all the way home .
promoters always hastened to place their choice tickets in the hands of the wealthy speculators , and only the man who knew the man who knew the fellow who had an in with the guy at the box office ever came up with a good seat for a contest of any importance .
in some cities games were broadcast throughout the week and then on weekends the announcer was silenced , and fans must needs drive to the city from all the broadcast area to discover how their heroes were faring .
while women had always attended ball games in small numbers ( it was the part of a `` dead game sport '' in the early years of the twentieth century to be taken out to the ball park and to root , root , root for the home team ) , they had often sat in patient martyrdom , unable even to read the scoreboard , which sometimes seemed to indicate that one team led another by a score of three hundred and eighty to one hundred and fifty-one .
for every grown man ( except a few who were always suspected of being shy on virility ) knew at least the fundamentals of baseball , just as every male american in this era liked to imagine ( or pretend ) that he could fight with his fists .
radio , however , so increased the interest of women in the game that it was hardly necessary even to have `` ladies' days '' any longer to enable men to get to the ball park without interference at home .
the radio broadcasts themselves were often so patiently informative , despite the baseball jargon , that girls and women could begin to store up in their minds the same sort of random and meaningless statistics that small boys had long learned better than they ever did their lessons in school .
our discussion of this involves using erik erikson's schema of `` identity vs. identity diffusion '' as a conceptual tool in superimposing a few common denominators onto the diverse personality and family configurations of the unwed mothers from whose case histories we quoted earlier .
we hope thereby to emphasize that , from a psychological standpoint , the effectual prevention of illegitimacy is a continuous long-term process involving the socialization of the female from infancy through adolescence .
the successful and positive resolution of these crises during adolescence involves an epigenetic principle -- during adolescence , the individual's positive resolutions in each area of identity crisis depend , to a considerable degree , on his already having resolved preliminary and preparatory identity crises during his infancy , childhood , and early adolescence .
the adolescent experiences identity crises in terms of time perspective vs. time diffusion .
erikson has noted that , unless this trust developed early , the time ambivalence experienced , in varying degree and temporarily , by all adolescents ( as a result of their remembering the more immediate gratification of wants during childhood , while not yet having fully accepted the long-range planning required by adulthood ) may develop into a more permanent sense of time diffusion .
these polar extremes in time diffusion were indicated in some of the comments by unwed mothers reported in earlier chapters .
others displayed utter apathy and indifference to any decision about the past or the future .
however , as erickson has noted , the individual's failure to develop preliminary identities during infancy and childhood need not be irreversibly deterministic with respect to a given area of identity diffusion in his ( or her ) adolescence .
in the specific case of time diffusion , we must emphasize the significance of the earlier development of mistrust when it is combined with the inevitable time crisis experienced by most ( if not all ) adolescents in our society , and with the failure of the adolescent period to provide opportunities for developing trust .
and role-experimentation vs. negative identity .
however , if the child has been constantly surrounded , during nursery and early school age , by peer groups ; ;
and allowed little initiative in early play and work patterns -- then in adolescence her normal degree of vanity , sensitivity , and preoccupation with whether others find her appearance and behavior acceptable , will be compounded .
to be different is to invite shame and doubt ; ;
the attitudes of some unwed mothers quoted in chapter 2 , , revealed both considerable preoccupation with being accepted by others and a marked absence of self-certainty .
but very few seemed aware that such acceptance and identification need to be supplemented with more enduring and stable identification of and with one's self .
the adolescent's capacity to anticipate achievement and to exercise the self-discipline necessary to complete tasks successfully depends on the degree to which he or she developed autonomy , initiative , and self-discipline during childhood .
these childhood experiences are sources of the self-certainty that the adolescent needs , for experimenting with many roles , and for the freedom to fail sometimes in the process of exploring and discovering her skills and abilities .
she may well be incapacitated by it when she is confronted with present and future alternatives -- e.g. , whether to prepare primarily for a career or for the role of a homemaker ; ;
whether to pursue a college education or a job after high school ; ;
erikson has noted that , as this indecision mounts , it may result in a `` paralysis of workmanship '' .
and in the fact that she bases her decisions about work , college , carreer , and studies on what others are doing , rather than on her own sense of identity with given skills , abilities , likes , and dislikes .
the comments made by some unwed mothers ( quoted in chapter 2 ) ) reflect this paralysis of workmanship .
they accepted a job primarily because it was available , convenient , and paid reasonably .
as their identity diffusion increased , they became more susceptible to sporadic diversions in love and sexual affairs .
childhood experiences in learning work and self-discipline habits within a context of developing autonomy and initiative have considerable significance for the prevention of illegitimacy .
for example , some unwed mothers had had no work experiences , household chores , and responsibilities during childhood and early adolescence ; ;
sex was both .
the adolescent also faces the identity crisis that erikson has termed ideological polarization vs. diffusion of ideals .
adolescents have a much-discussed tendency to polarize ideas and values , to perceive things as `` either-or '' , black or white -- nuances of meaning are relatively unimportant .
erikson has postulated that such ideological polarization temporarily resolves their search for something stable and definite in the rapidly changing and fluctuating no-man's-land between childhood and adulthood .
the positive development , during adolescence , of this capacity to think and to feel strongly and with increasing independence , and to identify overtly either with or against given ideas , values , and practices , depends to a considerable degree on both previous and present opportunities for developing autonomy , initiative , and self-certainty .
the diffusion is most pronounced and most likely to become fixed , however , in those who have had no or very minimal opportunities to develop the autonomy and initiative that could have been directed into constructive expression and so served as sources of developing self-certainty .
for example , it is evinced by the adolescent ( or adult ) whose beliefs and actions represent primarily his rebellion and reaction against the ideas and behavior patterns of others , rather than his inner conviction and choice .
in another sense , it is represented in the arguments of the `` true believers '' who seek to disprove the validity of all other beliefs and ideas in order to retain confidence in theirs .
for example , the unwed mothers expressed their frustration with males who did not indicate more explicitly `` what it is they really want from a girl so one can act accordingly '' .
they condemned the movie script writers for implying that sex was enjoyable and exhilarating .
and they censured parents who `` never disciplined and were too permissive '' or who `` never explained how easy it was to get pregnant '' .
for example , some contemporary writing tends to fuse the `` good guys '' and the `` bad guys '' , to portray the weak people as heroes and weakness as a virtue , and to explain ( or even justify ) asocial behavior by attributing it to deterministic psychological , familial , and social experiences .
an estimate of one million dollars is probably not excessive .
the duration and other circumstances of the selden case made it a flagrant example of the gross abuses of patent infringement actions .
chief among the defects they singled out were the complicated and wearisome procedures in equity .
`` it is a duty '' , said hough , `` not to let pass this opportunity of protesting against the methods of taking and printing testimony in equity , current in this circuit ( and probably others ) , excused if not justified by the rules of the supreme court , especially to be found in patent causes , and flagrantly exemplified in this litigation .
observing that `` reforms sometimes begin with the contemplation of horrible examples '' , hough catalogued the many abuses encouraged by existing procedures .
the duplication of testimony and exhibits ; ;
the `` objections stated at outrageous length '' ; ;
the fundamental difficulty of which the selden case was `` a striking ( though not singular ) example '' , concluded hough , `` will remain as long as testimony is taken without any authoritative judicial officer present , and responsible for the maintenance of discipline , and the reception or exclusion of testimony '' .
william a. redding asserted that if the case had been heard in open court under rules of evidence , the testimony would have been completed in sixty days instead of five years .
its costive deliberations were likened to those of the british courts of chancery mercilessly caricatured by dickens in bleak house .
but he felt that the selden case was being unfairly pilloried .
the suit , although commonly designated as a single action , actually embraced five cases .
in a private communication written in 1911 , parker had been more to the point .
the vast industrial interests caught up in the selden suit , as well as the complex character of the automotive art , encouraged both sides to exploit `` every possible chance '' for or against the patent , said parker .
parker listed the remedies he deemed essential for reducing the cost and mass of testimony .
parker called for abolition of the indiscriminate or uncontrolled right of taking depositions before officers of the court who had no authority to limit testimony .
`` i am satisfied that in the selden case had this power existed and this course ( been ) pursued , it would have shortened the depositions of some of the experts nearly one-half and of some of the other witnesses thereto more than that '' .
in 1912 the united states supreme court adopted a new set of rules of equity which became effective on february 1 , 1913 .
under the new rules , testimony is taken orally in open court in all cases except those of an extraordinary character .
one of the a.l.a.m. lawyers observed that if the selden case had been tried under this simplified procedure , the testimony which filled more than a score of volumes , `` at a minimum cost of $1 a page for publication alone , could have been contained in one volume '' .
there is little doubt that they were promulgated by the supreme court as a direct result of the selden patent suit .
.
the trade bodies which came in the wake of the a.l.a.m. were more representative , for they never adopted a policy of exclusion .
one of the chief features of this community of interest is the automotive patents cross-licensing agreement , a milestone in the development of american industrial cooperation .
from the earliest days of the motor car industry , before the a.l.a.m. was established , patent infringement loomed as a serious and vexing problem .
the fluidity and momentum of the young industry abetted a general disregard of patent claims .
this scheme failed , and the following decade brought a deluge of infringement suits among individual manufacturers that reached its crest in 1912 .
the interchange of shop licenses for a nominal royalty eliminated infringement suits among the members of the a.l.a.m. patent pool ( although it did not protect them against outside actions ) and kept open channels for the cross-fertilization of automotive technology .
within its limits , this arrangement had the actual or potential characteristics of a cross-licensing agreement .
since the a.l.a.m. holdings embraced only about twenty-five per cent of motor vehicle patents , the denial of rights to independent companies did not retard technical progress in unlicensed sectors of the industry .
but henry ford used the planetary transmission in his model t and earlier cars and , in 1905 , as a precautionary measure , took out a license from the man who claimed to be its inventor .
by 1910 the courts were crowded with cases , many of them brought by freebooters who trafficked in disputed inventions .
`` purely from the business man's standpoint and without regard to the lawyer's view '' , commented a trade journal , `` the matter of patents in the automobile and accessory trade is developing some phases and results that challenge thought as to how far patents are to become weapons of warfare in business , instead of simple beneficient protection devices for encouraging inventive creation '' .
one manufacturer who held an allegedly basic patent said : `` i would readily put over $50,000 into the manufacture of the device , but it is so easy to make that we would enter immediately into a prolonged ordeal of patent litigation which would eat up all our profits '' .
by that time it was commonly agreed that patent warfare was sapping constructive achievement and blocking the free exchange of technical information .
hanch was treasurer of the nordyke & marmon company , an indianapolis firm which had manufactured flour-milling machinery before producing the marmon car in 1904 .
anxious to avoid a similar debacle in the motor car industry , hanch went to detroit in 1909 to enlist the support of leading a.l.a.m. members for an industry-wide patent-sharing plan .
after the demise of the a.l.a.m. , the time was propitious for establishing such a pool .
`` it is a much easier course to agree to let one another alone so far as ordinary patents are concerned '' , said a trade authority , `` than to continue the costly effort of straightening the tangle in the courts or seeking to reform the patent system , which appears to be getting into deeper confusion every day '' .
the plan was supported by frederick p. fish , counsel for the national automobile chamber of commerce .
he was well aware that some inventors and their allies used their patents solely for nuisance value .
the eloquent persuasions of fish guaranteed the adoption of the plan by the members of the automotive trade association .
it remained in force for ten years and has been renewed at five-year intervals since 1925 .
continue another hundred yards to the piazza of the knights of malta .
the massive gate of the maltese villa affords one of the most extraordinary views in rome .
retrace your steps a few yards on the via di santa sabina and turn right on the via di s. alessio , a street lined with stately homes .
turn left a block or so before the street ends , and then turn right down the via di santa prisca to the viale aventino .
the renaissance city
these two walks take you through the heart of rome .
you will visit a few churches that are exceptional yet often by-passed , a magnificent square , the main shopping district , the spanish steps , and the lovely pincian gardens .
you will realize why rome is indeed the eternal city .
the majestic circular tiers of stone of the theatre of marcellus give you some idea of the huge edifice that the emperor augustus erected in 13 b.c. .
andrea palladio , an italian architect of the sixteenth century , modeled his designs on its doric and ionic columns .
the remains of the portico of octavia are now in front of you .
turn to the right along a narrow street to the tiny piazza campitelli , then proceed along the via dei funari to the piazza mattei .
it's typical of rome that in the midst of this rather poor area you should find such an artistic work in the center of a little square .
the figures have been executed so skillfully that one senses a great feeling of life and movement .
go inside for a closer look at a renaissance palace .
the palazzo caetani , still inhabited by the caetani family , adjoins the palazzo mattei .
follow the colorful and busy via d. giubbonari for a hundred yards or so .
just a few yards to the right on the via capo di ferro will bring you to the palazzo spada , built in 1540 and now occupied by the council of state .
before you enter the palazzo , note francesco borromini's facade .
the large statue on the first floor is believed to be the statue of pompey at the base of which julius caesar was stabbed to death ( if so , the statue once stood in the senate house ) .
)
when you stand before the barrel-vaulted colonnade you have the impression that the statue at the end is at a considerable distance , yet it is actually only a few feet away .
the gardens of the palazzo , shaded by a huge magnolia tree , are most attractive .
from the palazzo spada you continue another block along the via capo di ferro and vicolo de venti to the imposing palazzo farnese , begun in 1514 and considered by many to be the finest palace of all .
today it is occupied by the french embassy .
ask to see the modern tapestries of paris and rome designed by lurcat .
today , by contrast it is a lively and colorful fruit , vegetable , and flower market .
as you approach the church on the via d. baullari you are passing within yards of the remains of the roman theatre of pompey , near which is believed to have been the place where julius caesar was assassinated .
opera lovers will be interested to learn that this church was the scene for the first act of tosca .
your first impression of this elongated square with its three elegant fountains , its two churches that almost face each other , and its russet-colored buildings , is a sense of restful spaciousness -- particularly welcome after wandering around the narrow and dark streets that you have followed since starting this walk .
for centuries it was the location of historic festivals and open-air sports events .
giovanni bernini's `` fountain of the rivers '' , in the center of the piazza , is built around a roman obelisk from the circus of maxentius which rests on grottoes and rocks , with four huge figures , one at each corner , denoting four great rivers from different continents -- the danube , the ganges , the nile , and the plate .
in the piazza navona there are many delightful cafes where you can sit , have a drink or lunch , and watch the fountains in the square .
perhaps a street musician will pass to add that extra touch .
inside you will find the lovely sibyls painted by raphael and a chapel designed by michelangelo .
now return to the piazza navona and leave it on the opposite side by the corsia agonale ; ;
in front of you is the palazzo madama , once belonging to the medici and now the italian senate .
you are now facing the pantheon , the largest and best-preserved building still standing from the days of ancient rome .
it was dedicated as a church in the seventh century .
the pantheon's interior , still in its original form , is truly majestic and an architectural triumph .
the only means of interior light is the twenty-nine-foot-wide aperture in the stupendous dome .
as you leave the pantheon , take the narrow street to the right , the via del seminario , a block to sant' ignazio , one of the most splendid baroque churches in the city .
) the curve of faded terra-cotta-colored houses in front of the church seems like a stage set .
one block along the via de burro ( in front of the church ) will bring you to the stock exchange in the old temple of neptune .
the great column from which the square takes its name was erected by the emperor marcus aurelius .
horse races took place here in the middle ages .
here is your opportunity to see the inside of a palazzo where the family still lives .
you will come to alemagna , a delightful , though moderately expensive restaurant , which is particularly noted for its exceptional selection of ice creams and patisseries .
to the spanish steps
rare , indeed , is the harlem citizen , from the most circumspect church member to the most shiftless adolescent , who does not have a long tale to tell of police incompetence , injustice , or brutality .
the businessmen and racketeers also have a story .
( and this is not , perhaps , the place to discuss harlem's very complex attitude toward black policemen , nor the reasons , according to harlem , that they are nearly all downtown .
it is hard , on the other hand , to blame the policeman , blank , good-natured , thoughtless , and insuperably innocent , for being such a perfect representative of the people he serves .
he has never , himself , done anything for which to be hated -- which of us has ? ?
there is no way for him not to know it : there are few things under heaven more unnerving than the silent , accumulating contempt and hatred of a people .
which is precisely what , and where , he is , and is the reason he walks in twos and threes .
any street meeting , sacred or secular , which he and his colleagues uneasily cover has as its explicit or implicit burden the cruelty and injustice of the white domination .
the white policeman standing on a harlem street corner finds himself at the very center of the revolution now occurring in the world .
even if he is gifted with the merest mustard grain of imagination , something must seep in .
he knows that he certainly does not want his children living this way .
he becomes more callous , the population becomes more hostile , the situation grows more tense , and the police force is increased .
before the dust has settled or the blood congealed , editorials , speeches , and civil-rights commissions are loud in the land , demanding to know what happened .
negroes want to be treated like men : a perfectly straightforward statement , containing only seven words .
the idea seems to threaten profound , barely conscious assumptions .
i once tried to describe to a very well-known american intellectual the conditions among negroes in the south .
and he asked me in perfect innocence , `` why don't all the negroes in the south move north '' ? ?
they do not escape jim crow : they merely encounter another , not-less-deadly variety .
they do not move to new york , they move to harlem .
white people hold the line as long as they can , and in as many ways as they can , from verbal intimidation to physical violence .
the white people fall back bitterly before the black horde ; ;
and what has once been a neighborhood turns into a `` turf '' .
northerners indulge in an extremely dangerous luxury .
and that they can ignore what is happening in northern cities because what is happening in little rock or birmingham is worse .
i know negroes who prefer the south and white southerners , because `` at least there , you haven't got to play any guessing games '' ! !
i know another negro , a man very dear to me , who says , with conviction and with truth , `` the spirit of the south is the spirit of america '' .
he did not , as far as i can gather , find the south `` worse '' ; ;
in the second place , though , even if birmingham is worse , no doubt johannesburg , south africa , beats it by several miles , and buchenwald was one of the worst things that ever happened in the entire history of the world .
but i do not believe that these examples are meant to be used as justification for our own crimes .
the emptier our hearts become , the greater will be our crimes .
as far as the color problem is concerned , there is but one great difference between the southern white and the northerner : the southerner remembers , historically and in his own psyche , a kind of eden in which he loved black people and they loved him .
personally , it is the southerner's sexual coming of age , when , without any warning , unbreakable taboos are set up between himself and his past .
the resulting , indescribable torment affects every southern mind and is the basis of the southern hysteria .
negroes represent nothing to him personally , except , perhaps , the dangers of carnality .
southerners see them all the time .
negroes are , therefore , ignored in the north and are under surveillance in the south , and suffer hideously in both places .
it seems to be indispensable to the national self-esteem that the negro be considered either as a kind of ward ( in which case we are told how many negroes , comparatively , bought cadillacs last year and how few , comparatively , were lynched ) , or as a victim ( in which case we are promised that he will never vote in our assemblies or go to school with our kids ) .
the country will not change until it re-examines itself and discovers what it really means by freedom .
it is a terrible , an inexorable , law that one cannot deny the humanity of another without diminishing one's own : in the face of one's victim , one sees oneself .
4 .
the fact that american negroes rioted in the u.n. while adlai stevenson was addressing the assembly shocked and baffled most white americans .
stevenson stated , in the course of his address , that the united states was `` against '' colonialism .
i had intended to be there myself .
i was curious about the impact of this political assassination on negroes in harlem , for lumumba had -- has -- captured the popular imagination there .
and i was curious about the african reaction .
had i been there , i , too , in the eyes of most americans , would have been merely a pawn in the hands of the communists .
nor was it long , naturally , before prominent negroes rushed forward to assure the republic that the u.n. rioters do not represent the real feeling of the negro community .
i find this view amazing .
one has only , for example , to walk through harlem and ask oneself two questions .
and the second question is : why don't those who now live here move out ? ?
unless one takes refuge in the theory -- however disguised -- that negroes are , somehow , different from white people , i do not see how one can escape the conclusion that the negro's status in this country is not only a cruel injustice but a grave national liability .
wherever there is great social discontent , these people are , sooner or later , to be found .
what i find appalling -- and really dangerous -- is the american assumption that the negro is so contented with his lot here that only the cynical agents of a foreign power can rouse him to protest .
color was delayed until 1935 , the wide screen until the early fifties .
each film consisted of fifty feet , which gives a running time of about one minute on the screen .
motion-picture exhibitions took place in stores in a general atmosphere like that of the penny arcade which can still be found in such urban areas as times square .
the sensational and frightening enjoyed popularity : a train rushes straight at the audience , or a great wave threatens to break over the seats .
the unfortunate queen mounted the scaffold ; ;
the head dropped off ; ;
an early film by a competitor of the wizard of menlo park simply showed a long kiss performed by two actors of the contemporary stage .
in response , the industry allowed the discovery of the motion picture as a form of fiction and thus gave the movies the essential form they have had to this day .
moreover , the most artistically successful of the nonfiction films have invariably borrowed the narrative form from the fiction feature .
the discovery that movies are a form of fiction was made in the early years of this century and it was made chiefly by two men , a french magician , georges melies , and an american employee of edison , edwin s. porter .
narrative time and film time
one of these is the `` dissolve '' , which makes possible a visually smooth transition from scene to scene .
for a moment or two , both scenes are present simultaneously , one growing weaker , one growing stronger .
immediately , the film improved and it improved because in narrative it found a content based on time to complement its own unbreakable connection with time .
linking the smoothly changing images together , the eye itself endows them with the illusion of movement .
so is the time of the novel .
the time of the motion picture is fixed absolutely .
each frame comes between the light and the lens and is individually projected on the screen , at the rate , for silent movies , of 16 frames per second , and , for sound films , 24 frames per second .
it is also the rate of photographing .
now time is also the concern of the fictional narrative , which is , at its simplest , the story of an action with , usually , a beginning , a middle , and an end -- elements which demand time as the first condition for their existence .
the cinematic element of time is merely used to increase the realism of an object which would still be reasonably realistic in a still photo .
almost everything about the movies that is peculiarly of the movies derives from a tension created and maintained between narrative time and film time .
it was porter , however , who produced the very first movie whose name has lived on through the half century of film history that has since ensued .
overnight , for one thing , porter's film multiplied the standard running time of movies by ten .
one reel -- from eight to twelve minutes -- became the standard length from the year of robbery , 1903 , until griffith shattered that limit forever with birth of a nation in 1915 .
the material of the porter film is simplicity itself ; ;
a band of robbers enters a railroad station , overpowers and ties up the telegraph operator , holds up the train and escapes .
the robbers run from the hide-out , take cover in a wooded declivity , and are shot dead by the posse .
all this is simple enough , but in telling the story porter did two important things that had not been done before .
the plane of the action in the scene is not parallel with the plane of the film in the camera or on the screen .
in that apparently simple shift porter opened the way to the sensitive use of the camera as an instrument of art as well as a mechanical recording device .
he revealed the potential value of the `` cut '' as the basic technique in the art of the film .
the meaning of the word is quite physical , to begin with .
if , as a home movie maker , you shoot the inevitable footage of your child taking its first steps , you have merely recorded an historical event .
you are employing the basic technique of film ; ;
this is what porter did .
she dashes around in alarm .
time and space have both become cinematic .
the `` chase '' as a standard film device probably dates from the great train robbery , and there is a reason for the continued popularity of the device .
it presumes both speed and urgency and it demands cutting -- both from pursued to pursuer and from stage to stage of the journey of both .
the cowboy films , the cops and robbers films , and the slapstick comedy films culminating in an insane chase are not only catering to what critics may assume to be a vulgar taste for violence ; ;
the creator of the art of the film : d.w. griffith
the man was d.w. griffith .
in about seven years griffith either invented or first realized the possibilities of virtually every resource at the disposal of the film maker .
not that there had not been attempts , mostly european , to do exactly that .
staggeringly condensed versions of famous novels and famous plays were presented .
in all of this extensive and expensive effort , the camera was downgraded to the status of recording instrument for art work produced elsewhere by the actor or by the author .
not surprisingly , this approach did not work .
but no art at all was born of the art effort in the early movies .
congregational membership , however , is another thing .
that is , when it can preserve economic integration .
the presence of other members of similar social and economic level is the sufficient condition .
central cities reveal two adverse features for the major denominations : ( 1 ) central cities tend to be areas of residence for lower social classes ; ;
the central city areas , in other words , exhibit the two characteristics which violate the life principle of congregations of the major denominations : they have too few middle-class people ; ;
central city areas have become progressively poorer locales for the major denominations since the exodus of middle-class people from most central cities .
the key to protestant development , therefore , is economic integration of the nucleus of the congregation .
but this is deceptive , for the core of membership is concentrated in a single social and economic stratum .
moreover , residential mobility is so high in metropolitan areas that churches have to recruit constantly in their core stratum in order to survive ; ;
the congregation is first and foremost an economic peer group ; ;
if it were primarily a believing fellowship , it would recruit believers from all social and economic ranks , something which most congregations of the new protestantism ( with a few notable exceptions ) have not been able to do .
the vulnerability of protestant congregations to social differences has often been attributed to the `` folksy spirit '' of protestant religious life ; ;
we have seen that the folksy spirit is confined to economic peers ; ;
actually , there is little evidence of such personal community in protestant congregations , as we shall see in another connection .
this fact is evident in the recruitment of new members .
the rule of economic integration in congregational life can be seen in the missionary outreach of the major denominations .
theologians have been stressing the fact that the church does not exist for its own sake but as a testimony in the world for the healing of the world .
if economic integration really shapes congregational life , then evangelism should be a process of extending economic integration .
( co-optation means to choose by joint action in order to fill a vacancy ; ;
) in a mobile society , congregational health depends on a constant process of recruitment ; ;
therefore , the recruitment or missionary outreach of the congregation will be co-optation rather than proclamation -- like elements will have to be assimilated .
one study in pittsburgh , however , has illuminated the situation .
if we add to these contacts with friendly members the `` contacts with an organization of the church '' ( 11.2 per cent of the cases ) , then a substantial two thirds of all recruitment is through friendly contact .
the new people respond in kind by joining the church .
the majority of such contacts are with people of similar social and economic position ; ;
this means that the antennae of the congregation are extended into the community , picking up the wave lengths of those who will fit into the social and economic level of the congregation ; ;
the lay ministry is a means to recruit like-minded people who will strengthen the social class nucleus of the congregation .
once the pool of recruits diminishes , the congregation is helpless -- friendly contacts no longer keep it going .
the proclamation of the churches is almost totally confined to pastoral contacts by the clergy ( 17.3 per cent of new members ) and friendly contacts by members ( over two thirds if organizational activities are included ) .
in general , friendly contact with a member followed by contact with a clergyman will account for a major share of recruitment by the churches , making it quite evident that the extension of economic integration through co-optation is the principal form of mission in the contemporary church ; ;
the inner life of congregations will prosper so long as like-minded people of similar social and economic level can fraternize together ; ;
economic integration ceases when the social and economic statuses in an area become too mixed or conflict with the status of the congregation .
the fact that metropolitan churches of the major denominations have moved approximately every generation for the last hundred years becomes somewhat more intelligible in the light of this struggle to maintain economic balance .
nonetheless , the prevalence of economic integration in congregations illumines the nature of the protestant development .
these trends seem to be working at cross-purposes in the metropolis .
the motifs of impersonal interdependence and insulation of residential communities have polarized ; ;
it now becomes evident that the denominational church is intimately involved with the economy of middle-class culture , for it serves to crystallize the social class identity of middle-class residential groupings .
this conformity represents a desperate attempt to stabilize a hopelessly unstable environment .
since american life is committed above all to productivity and a higher standard of economic life , the countervailing forces of residential and religious exclusiveness have fought a desperate , rearguard action against the expanding interdependence of the metropolis .
negroes , puerto ricans , and rural newcomers are slowly making their way into the cities .
the identification of the basic unit of religious organization -- the parish or congregation -- with a residential area is self-defeating in a modern metropolis , for it simply means the closing of an iron trap on the outreach of the christian fellowship and the transmutation of mission to co-optation .
this interpretation of the role of residence in the economy of middle-class culture could lead to various projections for the churches .
it could be argued that only such neighborhoods can sustain religious activity , since worship presupposes some local stabilities .
attention will be given in the next chapter to the style of association in the denominational churches ; ;
the keynotes of this style are activism and emphasis on achievements in gaining self-esteem .
`` fellowship by likeness '' and `` mission by friendly contact '' form the iron cage of denominational religion .
what goes on in the cage will occupy our attention under the rubric of the organization church .
the perplexing question still remains as to why the middle classes turn to the churches as a vehicle of social identity when their clubs and charities should fill the same need .
the directors sold directly to concessionaires , who had to make their profits above the high prices asked by the company .
the concessionaires also had to pay a tax of one-tenth on the goods they traded , and all pelts were to be taken to company stores and shipped to france in company ships .
in accord with its penurious policy , the company failed to furnish presents to hold the loyalty of the principal indians .
traders from the english colonies were far more generous , and indian loyalty turned to them .
in 1721 the king sent three commissioners to louisiana with full powers to do all that was necessary to protect the colony .
they adopted a program by which louisiana was divided into five districts .
for southeastern louisiana , mobile was the principal post , and it was to furnish supplies for trade to the north and east , in the region threatened by british traders .
fort toulouse , on the alabama river , had been erected in 1714 for trade with the alabamas and choctaws , but money was available for only one other new post , near the present nashville , tennessee , and this was soon abandoned .
dependent upon it were posts on the lower mississippi and the region westward to the frontiers of new spain .
it was hoped that to this post would flow a large quantity of furs from the west , principally down the arkansas river .
other posts would be established up the ohio and wabash to protect communication with canada .
each of the five principal posts was to have a director , responsible to a director-general at new orleans .
concessionaires were to be under the supervision of the directors .
the habitants were to be encouraged to trade and were to dispose of their pelts to the concessionaires .
new orleans supplied the goods for the trade on the mississippi , and west of that river , and on the ohio and wabash .
the power that bienville exercised during his first administration cannot be determined .
the conseil even treated the serious matter of british aggression as its business and , on its own authority , sent to disaffected savages merchandise `` suitable for the peltry trade '' .
during the first administration of bienville , the peltry trade of the mobile district was a lucrative source of revenue .
these deerskins were the raw material for the manufacture of leather , and were the only articles which the tribes of this district had to exchange for european goods .
the director of the post at mobile kept an adequate amount of french goods , of a kind to which they were accustomed , to supply the indian needs .
de la laude , commander of the alabama post , had the friendship of the natives , and was able to make them look upon the british as poor competitors .
he became , after a time , commander of a post on the alabama river , but his operations extended from mobile throughout the district , and he finally obtained a monopoly of the indian trade .
their territory lay to the north , near the sources of the alabama , the tombigbee , the tennessee , and cumberland rivers , and was easily accessible to traders among the near-by cherokees .
venturesome traders , however , continued to come to them from mobile , and to obtain a considerable number of pelts for the french markets .
the chickasaws finally were the occasion for the most disastrous wars during the french control of louisiana .
they threatened constantly to give the british a hold on this region , from whence they could move easily down the rivers to the french settlements near the gulf .
his urgings brought some results .
but it coupled with this a requirement that indians must bring their pelts to mobile and thus save all costs of transportation into and out of the indian country .
for two years his friend and cousin , boisbriant , remained as acting governor and could do little to stem the anglican advance .
the company was impressed with some ideas of the danger from carolina , and when perier came over as governor in 1727 , he was given special instructions regarding the trade of the mobile district .
to the directors the problem appeared a matter of intrigue or diplomacy .
these agents were to ascertain the difference between english and french goods , and the prices charged the indians .
they were to promise fine presents to the loyal red men , as well as an abundant supply of trading goods at better prices than the opposition was offering .
the savages divided into two factions ; ;
so hostile did these factions become that , among the choctaws , civil war broke out .
he asked the government for two hundred soldiers , who were to be specifically assigned to arrest english traders and disloyal indians .
he asked also for more supplies to trade at a low price for the indians' pelts .
d'artaguette went vigorously to work , and gave credit to many hunters .
perier finally , in one last bid in 1730 , cut the price of goods to an advance of 40 per cent above the cost in france .
with the loss of the mobile trade , which ended all profits from louisiana , the natchez indians revolted .
the war to subdue them taxed the resources of the colony and piled up enormous debts .
it stated that it had lost 20,000,000 livres in its operations , and apparently blamed its poor success largely on the indian trade .
the king accepted the surrender and fixed the compensation of the company at 1,450,000 livres .
company rule in louisiana left the colony without fortifications , arms , munitions , or supplies .
others left the country , and there was no one familiar with the indian trade .
this was a slow and difficult course , and french trade suffered from the many mistakes of the new group of traders .
perier and salmon , the intendant , wished either to entrust the trade to an association of merchants or to have the crown furnish goods on credit to individuals who would repay their debts with pelts .
he reported , too , that among the habitants there were none of probity and ability sufficient to justify entrusting them with the king's goods .
with no company to interfere , he kept close control over all the traders .
the king should expect no profit , and an advance of only 20 per cent above the cost in france , which would cover the expense of transportation and handling , was all he charged the traders .
they would be particularly displeased with the state department if it were the source of such reports .
the reason for this bears explaining for those who may wonder why state spends so much of its diplomatic energy on congress when the russians are so available .
the farmers may be aroused if congress cuts into the agriculture department's budget .
labor restrains undue brutality toward the labor department ; ;
a kaleidoscope of pressure groups make it unpleasant for the congressman who becomes ugly toward the department of health , education , and welfare .
tampering with the post office may infuriate every voter who can write .
no such political restraint subdues his blood when he gazes upon the state department in anger .
after all , the money dispensed by state goes not to the farmer , the laborer , or the businessman , but to foreigners .
they are also probably ungrateful for uncle's sam's bounty .
will not the righteous congressman be cheered at the polls if he reminds them to get right with america and if he saves the taxpayer some money by spoiling a few of their schemes ? ?
the result is that the state department's perpetual position before congress is the resigned pose of the whipping boy who expects to be kicked whenever the master has had a dyspeptic outing with his wife .
state keeps the junketeering list a secret .
congress is a harsh master .
its embassies are expected to supply him with reams of local money to pay his way ; ;
but come the next session of congress , state can expect only that its summer guest will bite its hand when it goes to the capitol asking money for diplomatic entertaining expenses abroad or for living expenses for its diplomats .
in the matter of money state's most unrelenting watchdog during the eisenhower years was representative john j. rooney , of brooklyn , who controlled the purse for diplomatic administrative expenses .
nothing worked .
rooney remained untouched .
one year the department collected a file of case histories to document its argument that men in the field were paying the government's entertainment bills out of personal income .
next day , reports went through the department that rooney had been outraged by what he considered a patent attempt to put public pressure on him for increased entertainment allowances and had sworn an oath that , that year , expense allowances would not rise a dollar .
the department's constant fight with the house for money is a polite minuet compared with its periodic bloody engagements with the senate .
with its power to investigate , the senate can paralyze the secretary by keeping him in a state of perpetual testimony before committees , as it did with dean acheson .
during dulles's first two years in office , while republicans ran the senate , the department was at the mercy of men who had thirsted for its blood since 1945 .
so was the attack upon charles e. bohlen when eisenhower appointed him ambassador to moscow .
where acheson had fought a gallant losing battle for the department , dulles fed the crocodile with his subordinates .
in view of eisenhower's reluctance to concede that anything was amiss in the terror , it is doubtful that heroic intervention by dulles could have produced anything but disaster for him and the country's foreign policy .
he elected to `` get along '' .
their old errors of judgment were equated , in the curious logic of the time , with present treasonous intent .
this , in turn , brought a new fashion in senatorial criticism as the democrats took control .
for three or four years in the mid-1950's , this complaint was heard rumbling up from the senate floor whenever there was a dull legislative afternoon .
an equally tenable thesis is that the dearth of new thought was created by the senate's own penchant for crucifying anyone whose ideas seem unorthodox to the next generation .
there are ninety-eight foreign embassies and legations in washington .
here is the world of the chauffeured limousine and the gossip reporter , of caviar on stale crackers and the warm martini , of the poseur , the spy , the party crasher , and the patriot , of the rented tails , the double cross , and the tired lothario .
here are hatched plans for getting a share of the american bounty , the secret of the anti-missile missile , or an invitation to dinner .
some , like the british and the french , maintain an elaborate system of personal contacts and have experts constantly studying special areas of the american scene .
each has its peculiar style .
when ambassador mikhail menshikov took it over in 1957 from georgi zaroubin , he made a determined effort to change this idea .
to everyone's astonishment he seemed no more like the run-of-the-mine russian ambassador than george babbitt was like fyodor pavlovitch karamazov .
where they had affected the bleak social style of embalmers' assistants , menshikov went abroad gorgeous in white tie and tails .
speeches by the soviet ambassador became the vogue as he obliged rural maryland rotarians and national press club alike .
a newspaperman who met him at a reception swore that he asked menshikov : `` what should we call you '' ? ?
`` smilin' mike '' was the sobriquet washington gave him .
toasting in champagne one night at the embassy , he hoisted his glass to a senator's wife and gaily cried : `` up your bottom '' ! !
at the state department , hard-bitten russian experts complained that the capitol was out of its wits .
the menshikov interlude ended as larks with the russians usually end .
the most inscrutable embassies are the arabs' , and the most inscrutable of the arabs are the saudi arabians .
rumor had it that his children numbered in the hundreds .
a reporter who consulted a middle east information officer for routine vital statistics got nowhere until the state department man produced from his bottom desk drawer a brochure published by the arabian-american oil company .
`` but bring it right back .
the size of saud's family was still being debated when the king appeared for his first meeting with eisenhower .
the massed reporters brushed aside the customary bromides about saudi-american friendship to bore in on the central question .
`` twenty-one '' , replied the sheik .
`` twenty-five '' , the sheik replied .
the sheik smiled and murmured : `` that is precisely correct '' .
when dag hammarskjold was negotiating the middle east peace after israel's 1956 invasion of egypt , he soon found himself speaking the mysterious phrases of cairo , a language as anarchic as casey stengel's .
finally he reported that nasser was ready to make a concrete commitment in return for israeli concessions .
i know now why our japanese friends were surprised when they walked into our bathroom .
a few newer homes have western flush toilets , but even with running water , they are usually eastern style .
they are trying to demonstrate some different ways of teaching and learning .
spiritual life is cultivated , but students do not need to be christian .
in the afternoon miss hosaka and her mother invited me to go with them and young mrs. kodama to see the famous spring dances of the geisha dancers .
she was a real experience ! !
because don was leaving the next day , i spent the evening with him at asia center .
there is much more freedom in the schools here than i expected -- some think too much .
with the loss of the emperor diety in japan , the people are left in confusion with no god or moral teachings that have strength .
there seems to be no purpose in life that is sure -- no certain guiding principles to give stability .
gambling is everywhere , especially among students .
the government has recognized the dilemma and is beginning to devise some moral education for the schools -- but the teachers often have no firm conviction and are confused .
it will be painful , but interesting , to see what kind of a god these people will create or what strong convictions they will develop .
they suggested several new foods , and usually i found them good , except the sweets , which i think i could learn to like .
kyoto
my instructions were that mr. nishimo would meet me at the hotel , but instead he and three others were at the station with a very warm welcome .
they understood and teased me a bit about it .
kyoto is the ancient capital of japan and still its cultural center .
here i was accompanied by mrs. okamoto ( fumio's mother ) , her son , mr. washizu ( a prospective student with whom i have been corresponding for more than a year ) , and mr. nishima , one of the science teachers .
we walked miles and saw various shrines and gardens .
at 6:00 p.m. we went to the kyoto spring dances at the place where these beautiful dances originated .
after a supper of unagi ( rice with eel -- eel which is raised in an ice-cold pond at the foot of mt. fuji ) , i returned to my beautiful room to sleep as hard as possible to be ready for another busy day .
i was amazed at the very poor hospital facilities accompanying the medical school .
there seemed to be no excuse ? ?
we had tea at mr. washizu's home where i learned that he , too , comes from a very wealthy family .
and he , being the eldest , was supposed to be a priest , but he chose to do differently , and one of his brothers is to become the priest .
in his big home live four families and thirty people , so it needs to be big .
he had displayed more of them than usual so that i could enjoy them .
the house itself is 400 years old with all the craftsmanship of older , less-hurried times .
mr. nishima went with me on the train to nara .
in nara i stayed at the hotel where the prince and princess had stayed on their honeymoon .
here mr. yoneda met us after a three-hour train trip from the town where he teaches .
in the evening both of the men went with me on the train 30 miles to osaka to put me on the train for hiroshima .
at osaka , mr. yoneda had to leave us to get the train to his home , but mr. nishima and i had an hour and a half before train time to see osaka at night .
one spot in osaka i shall always remember -- the bridge where we stood to watch the reflections of the elaborate neon signs in the still waters of the river .
my train arrived in hiroshima at the awful hour of 4:45 a.m. .
but there he was at the train with an oregon state pennant in his hand .
they knew that i was still grieving over the tragic event , and they felt that if i could see the recovery and the spirit of the people , who hold no grudge , but who also regret pearl harbor , i would be happier and would understand better a new japan .
the teachers of mr. uno's school gave me a small gift to thank me for coming .
i was grateful for their insight into my need for this experience .
tokyo
this day was `` open house for parents '' day , and the girls were busy preparing exhibits and arranging tea tables .
it was thrilling to see the effect of an american-trained teacher on japanese students in a class in home planning .
i am told the time will soon come when women will find it necessary to do most of their own work , and even now it is important to have conveniences for the use of servants .
at this women's university we find a monument to a courageous family who believed that japanese women also should be educated .
active alumnae have built a fine building on the campus where members can come and stay for a few days or longer and where they can have their social gatherings and professional meetings .
masu is also teaching in a municipally-sponsored school for japanese widows in tokyo .
they become skilled in cooking and cleaning and in receiving guests .
they have model kitchens , a sick room with a model patient in bed , and a nursery with a life-like doll .
graduates of this maid's school are much in demand and can always find work immediately .
masu's home economics training comes into play as she designs cupboards along modern functional lines for the storage of cleaning materials .
her education in the united states , not just in a classroom , but also in an american house with an american housekeeper , stands her in good stead .
after a fine luncheon in the cafeteria , the kitchen of which masu had planned , mr. washizu and i left to meet representatives of the usis for a visit to the university of tokyo .
the achievement of the desegregation of certain lunch counters not only by wise action by local community leaders but by voluntary action following consultation between attorney general rogers and the heads of certain national chain stores should , of course , be applauded .
the suppositions in the previous illustration might be sufficiently altered by establishing a connection between general company practice and local practice in the south , and by establishing such direct connection between the practice and the economic well-being of stores located in new york and general company policy .
it would be directed against the actual location of the unjust policy which , for love's sake and for the sake of justice , must be removed , and , indivisible from this , to the economic injury of the people directly and objectively a part of this policy .
such a general boycott might still be a blunt or indiscriminating instrument , and therefore of questionable justification .
moreover , prudence alone would indicate that , unless the local customs are already ready to fall when pushed , the results of direct economic action everywhere upon national chain stores will likely be simply to give undue advantage to local and state stores which conform to these customs , leading to greater decentralization and local autonomy within the company , or even ( as the final self-defeat of an unjust application of economic pressure to correct injustice ) to its going out of business in certain sections of the country ( as , for that matter , the quakers , who once had many meetings in the pre-civil war south , largely went out of business in that part of the country over the slavery issue , never to recover a large number of southern adherents ) .
it is true , of course , that the end or objective of this action was different .
the need that we not give unqualified approval to any but a limited use of economic pressure directed against the actual doers of injustice is clear also in light of the fact that white citizens' councils seem resolved to maintain segregation mainly by the use of these same means and not ordinarily by physical violence .
the end or aim of the action , of course , is also important , especially where it is not alone a matter of changing community customs but of the use of deadly economic power to intimidate a person from stepping forward to claim his legal rights , e.g. , against negroes who register to vote in fayette county , tennessee , at the present moment .
this , however , is sufficient to show that more or less non-violent resistance and economic conflict ( if both sides are strong enough ) can be war of all against all no less than if other means are used .
it is clear that non-violent resistance is a mode of action in need of justification and limitation in christian morality , like any other form of resistance .
one of the sit-in leaders has said : `` nobody from the top of heaven to the bottom of hell can stop the march to freedom .
the present writer certainly agrees with that statement , and would also affirm this -- in the order of justice .
and when charity interpenetrates man's struggle for justice and freedom it does not simply surround this with a sentimental good will .
r. b. gregg has written that `` non-violence and good will of the victim act like the lack of physical opposition by the user of physical jiu-jitsu , to cause the attacker to lose his moral balance .
and again , that `` the object of non-violent resistance is partly analogous to this object of war -- namely , to demoralize the opponent , to break his will , to destroy his confidence , enthusiasm , and hope .
a trial of strength , however , is made quite inevitable by virtue of the fact that anyone engaging in non-violent resistance will be convinced that his action is based on sounder values than those of his opponent ; ;
this makes necessary a morality of means , and principles governing the conduct of resistance whenever this is thought to be justified .
here it is relevant to remember that men commonly regard some causes as more important than their lives ; ;
a technique by which it is proposed to enter with compulsion into the very heart of a man and determine his values may often in fact seem the more unlimited aggression .
since the will and word of god are for them concentrated in christ-like love , it seems clear to them that non-violent resistance is quite another thing .
without agreeing with every phrase in this statement , we must certainly assert the great difference between christian love and any form of resistance , and then go on beyond the mennonite position and affirm that christian love-in-action must first justify and then determine the moral principles limiting resistance .
economy in the use of power needs not only to be asserted , but clearly specified ; ;
economy in the use of power means more than inflicting a barely intolerable pressure upon an opponent and upon the injustice opposed .
there must also be additional and more fundamental discrimination in the use of means of resistance , violent or non-violent .
in these terms , the `` economic withdrawal '' of the negroes of nashville , tennessee , from trading in the center city , for example , was clearly justified , since these distinctions do not require that only people subjectively guilty be singled out .
there may be instances in which , if economic pressure is to be undertaken at all , this would have to be applied without discrimination against a whole people .
`` billions of american dollars , not only from capital investors but also from the pockets of u.s. taxpayers '' , this author states , `` are being poured into south africa to support a system dedicated to the oppression , the persecution , and the almost diabolical exploitation of 12 million people the color of whose skins happens not to be white '' .
this leads to the conclusion that `` the fact is inescapable that america does have a say in whether or not apartheid shall continue '' .
not only should this provision be enforced but other economic and political actions might be taken which , this author believes , `` must surely be supported by every american who values the freedom that has been won for him and whose conscience is not so dominated by the lines in his account books that he can willingly and knowingly contribute to the enslavement of another nation '' .
they have also led the nation in the direction of a welfare state .
the name presumably derives from the french royal house which never learned and never forgot ; ;
the nature of the opposition between liberals and bourbons is too little understood in the north .
it is these other differences between north and south -- other , that is , than those which concern discrimination or social welfare -- which i chiefly discuss herein .
a southerner married to a new englander , i have lived for many years in a connecticut commuting town with a high percentage of artists , writers , publicity men , and business executives of egghead tastes .
this is puzzling to an outsider conscious of the classic tradition of liberalism , because it is clear that these democrats who are left-of-center are at opposite poles from the liberal jefferson , who held that the best government was the least government .
when i question them as to what they mean by concepts like liberty and democracy , i find that they fall into two categories : the simpler ones who have simply accepted the shibboleths of their faith without analysis ; ;
i am naive , they say , to make use of such words .
-- liberal considers that the need for a national economy with controls that will assure his conception of social justice is so great that individual and local liberties as well as democratic processes may have to yield before it .
as for states' rights , they have never counted in the thinking of my liberal friends except as irritations of a minor and immoral nature which exist now only as anachronisms .
but he presents it publicly so enmeshed in hypocrisy that it is not an honest one .
if he attaches little importance to personal liberty , why not make this known to the world ? ?
i am concerned here , however , with the northern liberal's attitude toward the south .
his assumption seems to be that any such friends , being tolerable humans , must be more liberal than most southerners and therefore at least partly in sympathy with his views .
'' this , for the liberals i know , would be an understatement .
i do not think that my experience would be typical for southerners living in the north .
but in our case -- and neither my wife nor i have extreme views on integration , nor are we given to emotional outbursts -- the situation has ruined one or two valued friendships and come close to wrecking several more .
accounts have been published of northern liberals in the south up against segregationist prejudice , especially in state-supported universities where pressure may be strong to uphold the majority view .
from my wife's experience and other sources , this seems to be rarely encountered in educated circles .
but there is a leavening of liberalism among college graduates throughout the south , especially among those who studied in the north .
also , among the latter a large percentage soon acquire the prevalent southern attitude on most social problems .
but for this discussion the most important division is between those who have been reconstructed and those who haven't .
nobody knows how many southerners there are in this category .
i never heard of a poll being taken on the question .
prior to 1954 i imagine that a majority of southerners would have voted against the confederacy .
and if a poll had been taken immediately following the dispatch of troops to little rock i believe the majority would have been for the old south .
probably a larger percentage of virginians and south carolinians remain unreconstructed than elsewhere , with georgia , north carolina , and alabama following along after them .
so that a line running down the length of the south marking the upper limits of tidewater would roughly divide the old south from the new , but with , of course , important minority enclaves .
also , we should not even to-day discount the fact that a region such as the coastal lowlands centering on charleston had closer ties with england and the west indies than with the north even after independence .
in certain respects defeat increased the persistent anglophilia of the old south .
and no doubt many people in states like the carolinas and georgia , which were among the most tory in sentiment in the eighteenth century , bitterly regretted the revolt against the crown .
all southerners agree that slavery had to go ; ;
southern resentment has been over the method of its ending , the invasion , and reconstruction ; ;
but apart from racial problems , the old unreconstructed south -- to use the moderate words favored by mr. thomas griffith -- finds itself unsympathetic to most of what is different about the civilization of the north .
it is hard to see how the situation could be otherwise .
for one thing , this is not a subject often discussed or analyzed .
i suppose the reason is a kind of wishful thinking : don't talk about the final stages of reconstruction and they will take care of themselves .
if the circumstances are faced frankly it is not reasonable to expect this to be true .
regardless of rights and wrongs , a population and an area appropriate to a pre-world-war- 1 great power have been , following conquest , ruled against their will by a neighboring people , and have had imposed upon them social and economic controls they dislike .
this is the only case in modern history of a people of britannic origin submitting without continued struggle to what they view as foreign domination .
in every war of the united states since the civil war the south was more belligerent than the rest of the country .
and there is no section of the nation more ardent than the south in the cold war against communism .
it is extraordinary that a people as proud and warlike as southerners should have been as docile as they have .
but at the same time it should not draw false inferences therefrom .
there is much truth in both these charges , and not many bourbons deny them .
most of them sincerely believe that the anglo-saxon is the best race in the world and that it should remain pure .
the bourbon economic philosophy , moreover , is not very different from that of northern conservatives .
they believe that if the south had been let alone it would have produced a civilization superior to that of modern america .
the south's antipathy to northern civilization includes such charges as poor manners , harsh accents , lack of appreciation of the arts of living like gastronomy and the use of leisure .
and i have heard many say that they are content to earn a half or a third as much as they could up north because they so much prefer the quieter habits of their home town .
by prevailing over other claimants for the loyalties of men , the nation-state maintained an adequate measure of certainty and order within its territorial borders .
it became the sole `` subject '' of `` international law '' ( a term which , it is pertinent to remember , was coined by bentham ) , a body of legal principle which by and large was made up of what western nations could do in the world arena .
speaking generally , it furthered -- and still tends to further -- the interests of the western powers .
)
this was particularly true in the world arena , which was an anarchical battleground characterized by strife and avaricious competition for colonial empires .
his duty was to his sovereign and to his nation , and an extension to peoples beyond the territorial boundaries was not to be contemplated .
at the same time , all suggestions that some sort of societal responsibility existed for the welfare of the people within the territorial state was strongly resisted .
however , in recent decades , for what doubtless are multiple reasons , an unannounced but nonetheless readily observable shift has occurred in both facets of national activity .
already firmly implanted internally , it is a growing factor in external matters .
in what has aptly been called a `` constitutional revolution '' , the basic nature of government was transformed from one essentially negative in nature ( the `` night-watchman state '' ) to one with affirmative duties to perform .
for lawyers , reflecting perhaps their parochial preferences , there has been a special fascination since then in the role played by the supreme court in that transformation -- the manner in which its decisions altered in `` the switch in time that saved nine '' , president roosevelt's ill-starred but in effect victorious `` court-packing plan '' , the imprimatur of judicial approval that was finally placed upon social legislation .
labor relations have been transformed , income security has become a standardized feature of political platforms , and all the many facets of the american version of the welfare state have become part of the conventional wisdom .
ratified in the republican party victory in 1952 , the positive state is now evidenced by political campaigns being waged not on whether but on how much social legislation there should be .
the other , of course , was the civil war , the conflict which a century ago insured national unity over fragmentation .
internal national responsibility , now a truism , need not be documented .
thirty years ago , while the nation was wallowing in economic depression , the prevailing philosophy of government was to stand aside and allow `` natural forces '' to operate and cure the distress .
less than a score of years later congress enacted the employment act of 1946 , by which the national government assumed the responsibility of taking action to insure conditions of maximum employment .
in 1961 the first important legislative victory of the kennedy administration came when the principle of national responsibility for local economic distress won out over a `` state's-responsibility '' proposal -- provision was made for payment for unemployment relief by nation-wide taxation rather than by a levy only on those states afflicted with manpower surplus .
internal national responsibility is a societal response to the impact of the industrial revolution .
national responsibility for individual welfare is a concept not limited to the united states or even to the western nations .
meeting in new delhi under the auspices of the international commission of jurists , a body of lawyers from the free world , the congress redefined and expanded the traditional rule of law to include affirmative governmental duties .
the rule of law , historically a principle according everyone his `` day in court '' before an impartial tribunal , was broadened substantively by making it a responsibility of government to promote individual welfare .
the idea of national responsibility thus has become a common feature of the nations of the non-soviet world .
whether a concept analogous to the principle of internal responsibility operates in a nation's external relations is less obvious and more difficult to establish .
the content is not the same , however : rather than individual security , it is the security and continuing existence of an `` ideological group '' -- those in the `` free world '' -- that is basic .
if internal responsibility suggests acceptance of the socialist ideal of equality , then external responsibility implies adherence to principles of ideological supranationalism .
in its beginnings the nation-state had to struggle to assert itself -- internally , against feudal groups , and externally , against the power and influence of such other claimants for loyalty as the church .
( since the time-span of the nation-state coincides roughly with the separate existence of the united states as an independent entity , it is perhaps natural for americans to think of the nation as representative of the highest form of order , something permanent and unchanging .
but it is more than that .
today , as new nations rise from the former colonial empires , nationalism is one of the hurricane forces loose in the world .
historically , however , the concept is one that has been of marked benefit to the people of the western civilizational group .
within their confines , moreover , technological and industrial growth has proceeded at an accelerated pace , thus increasing the cornucopia from which material wants can be satisfied .
( whether historical nationalism helped the peoples of the remainder of the world , and whether today's nationalism in the former colonial areas has equally beneficial aspects , are other questions .
it is one of the ironic quirks of history that the viability and usefulness of nationalism and the territorial state are rapidly dissipating at precisely the time that the nation-state attained its highest number ( approximately 100 ) .
in other words , nationalism worked well enough when it had limited application , both as to geography and as to population ; ;
complementing the political principle of nationalism is the legal principle of sovereignty .
operating side by side , together they helped shore up the nation-state .
jean bodin , writing in the sixteenth century , may have been the seminal thinker , but it was the vastly influential john austin who set out the main lines of the concept as now understood .
to him , law is the command of the sovereign ( the english monarch ) who personifies the power of the nation , while sovereignty is the power to make law -- i.e. , to prevail over internal groups and to be free from the commands of other sovereigns in other nations .
the nation-state , then , exemplifies the principle of nationalism and exercises sovereignty : supreme power over domestic affairs and independence from outside control .
high-level abstractions are always difficult to pin down with precision .
nevertheless , nationalism and sovereignty are reputed , in the accepted wisdom , to describe the modern world .
does the surface hide a quite different picture ? ?
both concepts are undergoing alteration ; ;
as evidence to support that view , consider the following illustrative instances .
what steps have been taken to guard against the one sort of mishap that could trigger the destruction of continents ? ?
is anything being done to increase our margin of safety ? ?
i have just asked these questions in the pentagon , in the white house , in offices of key scientists across the country and aboard the submarines that prowl for months underwater , with neat rows of green launch tubes which contain polaris missiles and which are affectionately known as `` sherwood forest '' .
to the men in the instrument-jammed bomber cockpits , submarine compartments and the antiseptic , windowless rooms that would be the foxholes of tomorrow's impersonal intercontinental wars , the questions seem farfetched .
`` readiness exercises '' are almost continuous .
in the command centers there are special clocks ready to tick off the minutes elapsed since `` e hour '' .
there is little time for the men in the command centers to reflect about the implications of these clocks .
they know little about their machinery beyond mechanical details .
among the policy makers , generals , physicists , psychologists and others charged with controlling the actions of the button pushers and their `` hardware '' , the answers to my questions varied partly according to a man's flair for what the professionals in this field call `` scenarios '' .
the experts are thus forced to hypothesize sequences of events that have never occurred , probably never will -- but possibly might .
already accidental war is a silent guest at the discussions within the kennedy administration about the urgency of disarmament and nearly all other questions of national security .
work is under way to see whether new restraining devices should be installed on all nuclear weapons .
they inhabit a secret world centered on `` go codes '' and `` gold phones '' .
one arm represented our bombers and missiles , the other arm `` theirs '' .
these men are not callous .
unanimously they believe that the world would become a safer place if more of us -- and more russians and communist chinese , too -- thought about accidental war .
he was , and is , with the rand corporation , a nonprofit pool of thinkers financed by the u.s. air force .
in recent weeks , as a result of a sweeping defense policy reappraisal by the kennedy administration , basic united states strategy has been modified -- and large new sums allocated -- to meet the accidental-war danger and to reduce it as quickly as possible .
its radar screens would register soviet missiles shortly after they are launched against the united states .
to the sac command and control post , forty-five feet below the ground at offutt air force base , near omaha , nebraska ; ;
telephones , teletypes , several kinds of radio systems and , in some cases , television , link all vital points .
for last-ditch emergencies sac has alternate command posts on kc-135 jet tankers .
the same principle of `` redundancy '' applies to all communications on these special networks .
additional codes can be used to challenge and counterchallenge the authentications .
that's the law .
the president cannot personally remove the safety devices from every nuclear trigger .
hundreds of men are required to pass the word to the button pushers and to push the buttons .
what if the president himself , in the language of the military , `` goes ape '' ? ?
nobody can be absolutely certain of the answers .
even the president cannot pick up his telephone and give a `` go '' order .
in an emergency he would receive available intelligence on the `` gold-phone circuit '' .
all can be connected with the gold circuit from their homes .
the talk would not be in code , but neither would it ramble .
officers who participate in the continual practice drills assured me that the president's decision could be made and announced on the gold circuit within minutes after the first flash from aj .
for these centers , too , are on the gold circuit .
nato headquarters in europe ; ;
and sac , which controls long-range bombers and atlas missiles .
in a word , plenty .
he or his deputy or one of their seven assistants , all full colonels , mans the heart of the command post twenty-four hours a day .
movable panels of floor-to-ceiling maps and charts are crammed with intelligence information .
his eyes are steady anchors of the deepest brown .
no question ruffles him or causes him to hesitate .
at least a dozen men , some armed , are never far away from him .
in emergencies the sac commander , gen. thomas power , or his deputies and their staff would occupy a balcony that stretches across the length of the room above wisman and his staff .
general power would participate in the decision making .
his consoles can give him instant contact with more than seventy bases around the world and with every sac aircraft .
( there are two receivers in case one should be dropped and damaged .
but wisman , too , does not know the go code .
in point of fact , this is a beige box with a bright red door , about one and a half feet square and hung from the wall about six feet from the door to wisman's right .
now we must become vague , for we are approaching one of the nation's most guarded secrets .
they are supplied , a batch at a time , by a secret source and are continually changed by wisman or his staff , at random intervals .
they are mere fragments , just one portion of preprepared messages .
the pieces must be placed in the context of the prepared messages by wisman's staff .
i asked wisman what would happen if he broke out the go codes and tried to start transmitting one .
now let us imagine a wing of b-52's , on alert near their `` positive control ( or fail-safe ) points '' , the spots on the map , many miles from soviet territory , beyond which they are forbidden to fly without specific orders to proceed to their targets .
as wisman put it , `` they have separate pieces of the pie , and we have the whole pie .
unless we send out the whole pie , their pieces mean nothing '' .
the answer is a cryptographic secret .
each must match wisman's `` pie '' with the fragment that he carries with him .
after that , it requires several minutes of concentrated work , including six separate and deliberate actions by a minimum of three men sitting at three separate stations in a bomber , each with another man beside him to help , for an armed bomb to be released .
suddenly , however , their posture changed and the game ended .
their heads were in the air sniffing .
they saw it before i did , even with my binoculars .
in the 360 degrees of horizon it obscured only a degree , no more .
the aborigines fastened upon it with a concentration beyond pathos .
at once the whole band set off at a lope .
they went after the squall as mercilessly as a wolf pack after an abandoned cow .
the games were over , this was life .
sometimes i guessed it was because the rain squall had changed direction .
their gait is impossible to convey in words .
it is the gait of the human who must run to live : arms dangling , legs barely swinging over the ground , head hung down and only occasionally swinging up to see the target , a loose motion that is just short of stumbling and yet is wonderfully graceful .
they ran for three hours .
for ten minutes they ran beneath the squall , raising their arms and , for the first time , shouting and capering .
they were studying the ground .
he had found a depression with rain water in it .
with a lordly and generous gesture , the discoverer stood up and beckoned to the closest of his fellows .
in an instant he had sucked it dry .
which does not mean that it is ugly .
there are thousands of square miles of salt pan which are hideous .
such stretches have an inhuman moonlike quality .
it is softened by the saltbush and the bluebush , has a peaceful quality , the hills roll softly .
he tells of three men who started out on a trip across a single paddock , a ten-by-ten-mile square owned by a sheep grazer .
``
nothing appalling or horrible rushed upon these men .
there might have been a pool of cool water behind any of these tree-clumps : only -- there was not .
only -- it did not .
only -- there was not .
no one came '' .
and countless others like them have died .
the aborigine is not deceived ; ;
he knows that the economy of life in the `` outback '' is awful .
any organism that falters or misperceives the signals or weakens is done .
perhaps this is what gives the aborigine his odd air of dignity .
seeing an aborigine today is a difficult thing .
others are confined to vast reservations , and not only does the australian government justifiably not wish them to be viewed as exhibits in a zoo , but on their reservations they are extremely fugitive , shunning camps , coming together only for corroborees at which their strange culture comes to its highest pitch -- which is very low indeed .
it was a difficult and ambiguous kind of negotiation , even though the rancher was said to be expert in his knowledge of the aborigines and their language .
we followed the asphalt road for a few miles and then swung off onto a smaller road which was nothing more than two tire marks on the earth .
at once he started to glance toward the instrument panel .
the rancher was navigating his way across the flatland .
i asked .
`` once i get out on the flat i do .
but if you don't know the place like the palm of your hand , you'd better use a compass and the speedometer .
very simple '' .
the landscape kept repeating itself .
finally we approached the bivouac of the aborigines .
the sun was not yet high and all of them were in the small area of shade cast by the boulder .
its ribs showed , it was a yellow nondescript color , it suffered from a variety of sores , hair had scabbed off its body in patches .
it struck me as a very bright and very malnourished dog .
it was not a pet .
`` the buggers love shade '' , the rancher said .
they'll move around that rock all day , following the shade .
we drove close to the boulder , stopped the land rover , and walked over toward the family .
he gazed away from us as we approached .
his legs were narrow and very long .
he had long black hair and a wispy beard .
there was something about his face that disturbed me and it took several seconds to realize what .
a fly would crawl down the bulging forehead , into the socket of the eye , walk along the man's lashes and across the wet surface of the eyeball , and the eye did not blink .
i turned to look at the lubra .
like the man , she was entirely naked .
there were two rubbing sticks for making fire , two stones shaped roughly like knives , a woven-root container which held a few pounds of dried worms and the dead body of some rodent .
there was also a boomerang , elaborately carved .
the two children , both boys , wandered around the australian and me for a few moments and then returned to their work .
they had located the runway of a colony of ants and as the ants came out of the ground , the boys picked them up , one at a time , and pinched them dead .
the odor here was more powerful than that which surrounded the town aborigines .
it was also subtly familiar , for it was the odor of the human body , but multiplied innumerable times because of the fact that the aborigines never bathed .
but that is a cliche and a dishonest one .
their skin was covered with a thin coating of sweat and dirt which had almost the consistency of a second skin .
in spots such as the elbows and knees the second skin is worn off and i realized the aborigines were much darker than they appeared ; ;
the boys had beautiful dark eyes and unlike their father they brushed constantly at the flies and blinked their eyes .
the australian asked .
at the corroborees , when they get to dancing and sweating , you'll see them rubbing up against a man who's supposed to have a specially good smell .
the stink is all the same to me , but i really think they can make one another out blindfolded '' .
he said sharply .
the australian stopped trying to talk a pidgin i could understand , and spoke strange words from deep in his chest .
the architects , the tile and carpet makers , the potters , painters , calligraphers , and metalsmiths worked through abbas's reign and those of his successors to enrich the city .
at the heart of all of this was the square , which one such traveler declared to be `` as spacious , as pleasant and aromatick a market as any in the universe '' .
in the early eighteenth century this fantastic city , then the size of london , started to decline .
the safavids fell from power ; ;
the desert encroached .
they think of it as a kind of spooky museum in which they may half see and half imagine the old splendor .
but even for them it remains a museum , or perhaps it would be more accurate to say a tomb , a tomb in which persia lies well preserved but indeed dead .
it seems that for persia , and especially for this city , there are only two times : the glorious past and the corrupt , depressing , sterile present .
however , just as all the buildings have not fallen and flowed back to their original mud , so the values which wanted them and saw that they were built have not all disappeared .
often , too , the social institutions are housed in these pavilions and palaces and bridges , for these great structures are not simply `` historical monuments '' ; ;
the promenade , for example , continues to take place on the chahar bagh , a mile-long garden of plane and poplar trees that now serves as the city's principal street .
on fridays , the day when many persians relax with poetry , talk , and a samovar , people do not , it is true , stream into chehel sotun -- a pavilion and garden built by shah abbas 2 , in the seventeenth century -- but they do retire into hundreds of pavilions throughout the city and up the river valley , which are smaller , more humble copies of the former .
those three other great activities of the persians , the bath , the teahouse , and the zur khaneh ( the latter a kind of club in which a leader and a group of men in an octagonal pit move through a rite of calisthenics , dance , chanted poetry , and music ) , do not take place in buildings to which entrance tickets are sold , but some of them occupy splendid examples of persian domestic architecture : long , domed , chalk-white rooms with daises of turquoise tile , their end walls cut through to the orchards and the sky by open arches .
water , air , fruit , poetry , music , the human form -- these things are important to persians , and they experience them with an intense and discriminating awareness .
i don't mean a few aesthetes who play about with sensations , like a young prince in a miniature dabbling his hand in a pool .
the men crying love poems in an orchard on any summer's night are as often as not the lutihaw , mustachioed toughs who spend most of their lives in and out of the local prisons , brothels , and teahouses .
not long ago an acquaintance , a slick-headed water rat of a lad up from the maw of the city , stood on the balcony puffing his first cigarette in weeks .
a cigarette would taste particularly good .
it was a nice day , granted .
he sniffed the air and licked it on his lip and knew as a vintner knows a vintage .
the line of an eyebrow , the color of the skin , a ghazal from hafiz , the purity of spring water , the long afternoon among the boughs which crowd the upper story of a pavilion -- these things are noticed , judged , and valued .
there has probably always been a bridge of some sort at the southeastern corner of the city .
for another , it was here that one of the old caravan routes came in .
it is a splendid structure .
from downstream , where the water level is much lower , it is a high , elaborately facaded pavilion .
at either end and in the center there are bays which contain nine greater alcoves as frescoed and capacious as church apses .
below , twenty vaults tunnel through the understructure of the bridge .
down through the axis of the bridge there is a long diminishing vista like a visual echo of piers and arches , while the vaults fronting upstream and down frame the sunset and sunrise , the mountains and river pools .
on the downstream , or `` pavilion '' , side these vaults give out onto terraces twice as wide as the bridge itself .
out of water , brick , and tile they have made far more than just a bridge .
it is a great spectacle .
crowds press along the terraces , down the steps , in and out of the arcades , massing against it as though it were a fortress under siege .
a bakhtiari khan in a cap and hacking jacket ; ;
the old kajar princes arriving in their ancient limousines ; ;
families go out to the edge of the terraces to sit on carpets around a samovar .
above , in the tiled prosceniums of the alcoves , boys sing the ghazals of hafiz and saadi , while at the very bottom , in the vaults , the toughs and blades of the city hoot and bang their drums , drink arak , play dice , and dance .
to a stranger their delight in these things may seem paradoxical , for persians chase the golden calf as much as any people .
nonetheless , they take time out -- much time -- from the game of grab and these new western experiments to go to the gardens and riverbanks .
poetry in persian life is far more than a common ground on which -- in a society deeply fissured by antagonisms -- all may stand .
and it is expressed , at least to their taste , in a perfect form .
in most western cultures today these twins have been sent away to the libraries and museums .
it is perhaps difficult to conceive , but imagine that tonight on london bridge the teddy boys of the east end will gather to sing marlowe , herrick , shakespeare , and perhaps some lyrics of their own .
boys and men go along the riverbank or to the alcoves in the top arcade .
each mode is believed to have a specific attribute -- one inducing pleasure , another generosity , another love , and so on , to include all of the emotions .
for example , the mode of bravery to this anonymous folk poem : `` they brought me news that spring is in the plains and ahmad's blood the crimson tulip stains ; ;
or the mode of love to this fragment by a recent poet : `` know ye , fair folk who dwell on earth or shall hereafter come to birth , that here , with dust upon his eyes , iraj , the sweet-tongued singer , lies .
''
yet within this limitation there is an astonishing variety : design as intricate as that in the carpet or miniature , with the melodic line like the painted or woven line often flowing into an arabesque .
the music director of the pittsburgh symphony orchestra , william steinberg , has molded his group into a prominent musical organization , which is his life .
this schedule became too strenuous , even for the energetic and conscientious mr. steinberg .
our meeting took place in may , 1961 , during one of the maestro's stop-overs in new york , before he left for europe .
seeking an obscure , dark , relatively quiet corner in the airy room otherwise suffused with afternoon sunshine , he asked if the soft background music could be turned off .
as he talked about himself , time and again stuffing and dragging on his pipe , steinberg began to relax and the initial hurried feeling grew faint and was dispelled .
yes : though not professional musicians , they were a music-loving family .
she even devised a system of colors , whereby the boy could easily distinguish the different note values .
because , like many other children , he intensely disliked practicing czerny etudes , he composed his own studies .
soon he was playing in the cologne municipal orchestra , and during world war 1 , , when musicians were scarce , he joined the opera orchestra as well .
`` by observing the conductor '' , he says with a twinkle in his eyes , `` i learned how not to conduct '' .
simultaneously , he pursued his musical studies at the conservatory , receiving sound training in counterpoint and harmony , as well in the violin and piano .
he became otto klemperer's personal assistant at the cologne opera , and a year later was promoted to the position of regular conductor .
yes , the maestro assented .
no , originally he had hoped to become a concert pianist and had even performed as such .
five years were spent with the cologne opera , after which he was called to prague by alexander von zemlinsky , teacher of arnold schonberg and erich korngold .
during his tenure he also fulfilled guest engagements at the berlin state opera .
during these years the youthful conductor had contributed greatly to the high level of musical life in germany .
the frankfurt years were particularly noteworthy for his performance of berg's wozzek soon after the berlin premiere under erich kleiber , and the world premiere of schonberg's von heute auf morgen .
in frankfurt , too , he directed the museum and opera house concerts which , in addition to the standard repertoire , featured novelties like erdmann's piano concerto and mahler's sixth symphony .
through the frankfurt jewish kulturbund he began to give sonata recitals in synagogues , with cellist emanuel feuermann .
in 1936 he accepted the leadership of the berlin kulturbund .
in 1938 , at the insistence of arturo toscanini , steinberg left germany for the united states , by way of switzerland .
in 1945 he became conductor of the buffalo philharmonic .
since 1944 he has also conducted regularly at the san francisco opera , where he made his debut with a memorable performance of verdi's falstaff .
he returned to germany for the first time in 1953 , where he has since conducted in cologne , frankfurt , and berlin .
first of all , to italy for a short vacation -- forte dei marmi , a place he loves .
steinberg spoke with warmth and enthusiasm about italy : `` rome is my second home .
he will conduct two concerts at the accademia di santa cecilia , as well as concerts in munich and cologne .
the forthcoming season in pittsburgh also promises to be of unusual interest .
other world premieres will be gardner read's third symphony and burle marx's samba concertante .
of course , i shall conduct mahler and bruckner works in the coming season , as usual .
my pittsburghers have become real addicts to mahler and bruckner '' .
bruckner's eighth he refers to as `` my travel symphony '' .
`` now that bruno walter is virtually in retirement and my dear friend dimitri mitropoulos is no longer with us , i am probably the only one -- with the possible exception of leonard bernstein -- who has this special affinity for and champions the works of bruckner and mahler '' .
`` there was always and at all times a contemporary music and it expresses the era in which it was created .
i consider it to be my job to expose the public to what is being written today '' .
he had just paid a brief visit to the frick collection to admire his favorite paintings by rembrandt and franz hals .
and how did he feel about modern art ? ?
`` as my wife puts it '' , he said , again with a twinkle in his eyes , `` all you know is your music .
what did he do for relaxation ? ?
he cited heine and stendhal as favorites in literature .
at the moment he was excited about his son's having received the prix de rome in archaeology and was looking forward to being present this summer at the excavation of an etruscan tomb .
`` is the attitude of german youth comparable to that of `` the angry young men ' of england '' ? ?
i was chairman , the only not youthful participant .
i was far from convinced of the truth of my statement , but could not think of anything that might evoke responses more quickly .
countered a twenty year old law student , `` you travel around the world .
`` but you want a job guaranteed when you return '' , i continued my attack .
when i mentioned that for my first long voyage i did not even have the money for the return fare , but had trusted to luck that i would earn a sufficient amount , the young people looked at me doubtingly .
`` would you advise us to act the same way ? ?
i think it is rather foolhardy to trust to luck '' .
the debate needed no additional controversy and soon i could ask each individually what he expected from life , what his hopes were and what his fears .
what they wished for most was security ; ;
the ideal home , they agreed , would be a small private house or a city apartment of four to five rooms , just enough for a family consisting of husband , wife , and two children .
all expressed interest in world affairs but no one offered to make any sacrifices to satisfy this interest .
that test , as president kennedy forthrightly depicted it in his state of the union message , will determine `` whether a nation organized and governed such as ours can endure '' .
incapable of self-delusion , the founding fathers found the crisis of their time to be equally grave , and yet they had confidence that america would surmount it and that a republic of free peoples would prosper and serve as an example to a world aching for liberty .
in certain respects , their task was incomparably greater than ours today , for there was nobody before them to show them the way .
our successors will have an easier task '' .
accordingly , they took special pains to preserve their papers as essential sources for posterity .
strong men with strong opinions , frank to the point of being refreshingly indiscreet , the founding seven were essentially congenial minds , and their agreements with each other were more consequential than their differences .
before merging them into a common profile it is well to remember that their separate careers were extraordinary .
eldest of the seven , benjamin franklin , a new englander transplanted to philadelphia , wrote the most dazzling success story in our history .
author of the albany plan of union , which , had it been adopted , might have avoided the revolution , he fought the colonists' front-line battles in london , negotiated the treaty of alliance with france and the peace that ended the war , headed the state government of pennsylvania , and exercised an important moderating influence at the federal convention .
commanding the continental army for six long years of the revolution , he was the indispensable factor in the ultimate victory .
during his two terms the constitution was tested and found workable , strong national policies were inaugurated , and the traditions and powers of the presidential office firmly fixed .
his political opponent and lifetime friend , thomas jefferson , achieved immortality through his authorship of the declaration of independence , but equally notable were the legal and constitutional reforms he instituted in his native virginia , his role as father of our territorial system , and his acquisition of the louisiana territory during his first term as president .
the active sponsor of jefferson's measure for religious liberty in virginia , madison played the most influential single role in the drafting of the constitution and in securing its ratification in virginia , founded the first political party in american history , and , as jefferson's secretary of state and his successor in the presidency , guided the nation through the troubled years of our second war with britain .
his revolutionary pamphlets , published when he was only 19 , quickly brought him to the attention of the patriot leaders .
his collaboration with washington , begun when he was the general's aide during the revolution , was resumed when he entered the first cabinet as secretary of the treasury .
less dazzling than hamilton , less eloquent than jefferson , john jay commands an equally high rank among the founding fathers .
he played the leading role in negotiating the treaty with great britain that ended the revolution , and directed america's foreign affairs throughout the confederation period .
he ended his public career as a two-term governor of new york .
their social status was achieved in some cases by birth , as with washington , jefferson and jay ; ;
unlike so many of the power-starved intellectuals in underdeveloped nations of our own day , they commanded both prestige and influence before the revolution started .
ardent , opinionated , even obstinate , they were amazingly articulate , wrote their own copy , and were masters of phrasemaking .
john adams dismissed john dickinson , who voted against the declaration of independence , as `` a certain great fortune and piddling genius '' .
and hamilton , who felt it `` a religious duty '' to oppose aaron burr's political ambitions , would have been a better actuarial risk had he shown more literary restraint .
madison once remarked : `` my life has been so much a public one '' , a comment which fits the careers of the other six .
washington never had a chance to work for an extended stretch at the occupation he loved best , plantation management .
john adams took to heart the advice given him by his legal mentor , jeremiah gridley , to `` pursue the study of the law , rather than the gain of it '' .
when the revolution broke out , he , along with jefferson and jay , abandoned his career at the bar , with considerable financial sacrifice .
while he was handling the multi-million-dollar funding operations of the government he had to resort to borrowing small sums from friends .
to support his large family hamilton went back to the law after each spell of public service .
hamilton was bent over his desk , drafting a legal paper by the light of a candle .
`` i have just come from viewing a man who had made the fortune of his country , but now is working all night in order to support his family '' , he reflected .
john adams asserted in the continental congress' declaration of rights that the demands of the colonies were in accordance with their charters , the british constitution and the common law , and jefferson appealed in the declaration of independence `` to the tribunal of the world '' for support of a revolution justified by `` the laws of nature and of nature's god '' .
this sense of moderation and fairness is superbly exemplified in an exchange of letters between john jay and a tory refugee , peter van schaack .
yet when , at war's end , the ex-tory made the first move to resume correspondence , jay wrote him from paris , where he was negotiating the peace settlement :
the latter in turn assured him that `` were i arraigned at the bar , and you my judge , i should expect to stand or fall only by the merits of my cause '' .
`` we have now a national character to establish '' , washington wrote in 1783 .
this new force , love of country , super-imposed upon -- if not displacing -- affectionate ties to one's own state , was epitomized by washington .
all sought the fruition of that nationalism in a federal government with substantial powers .
they supported it , not as a perfect instrument , but as the best obtainable .
the state's rights position was formulated by jefferson and madison in the kentucky and virginia resolves , but in their later careers as heads of state the two proved themselves better hamiltonians than jeffersonians .
indeed , the old jeffersonians were far more atune to the hamilton-oriented whigs than they were to the jacksonian democrats .
in his political testament , `` advice to my country '' , penned just before his death , madison expressed the wish `` that the union of the states be cherished and perpetuated .
and the disguised one , as the serpent creeping with his deadly wiles into paradise '' .
long live tobacco road .
thus we are compelled to face the urbanization of the south -- an urbanization which , despite its dramatic and overwhelming effects upon the southern culture , has been utterly ignored by the bulk of southern writers .
those writers known collectively as the `` southern school '' have received accolades from even those critics least prone to eulogize ; ;
such writers as william faulkner and robert penn warren have led the field of somewhat less important writers in a sort of post-bellum renaissance .
of the stereotyped negro servants chanting hymns as they plow the fields ; ;
this is not to say that the south is no longer agrarian ; ;
but the south is , and has been for the past century , engaged in a wide-sweeping urbanization which , oddly enough , is not reflected in its literature .
in 1950 it had become 47.1% urban .
there is a new south emerging , a south losing the folksy traditions of an agrarian society with the rapidity of an avalanche -- especially within recent decades .
it is said that , even at the present stage of southern urbanization , such a city as atlanta is not distinctly unlike columbus or trenton .
the effects of television and other mass media are erasing regional dialects and localisms with a startling force .
the field , then , is ripe for new southerners to step to the fore and write of this twentieth-century phenomenon , the southern yankeefication : the new urban economy , the city-dweller , the pains of transition , the labor problems ; ;
but these sources have not been tapped .
william styron , while facing the changing economy with a certain uneasy reluctance , insists he is not to be classified as a southern writer and yet includes traditional southern concepts in everything he publishes .
such are simply not within his bounded province .
has the agrarian tradition become such an addiction that the switch to urbanism is somehow dreaded or unwanted ? ?
lacking the pioneer spirit necessary to write of a new economy , these writers seem to be contenting themselves with an old one that is now as defunct as confederate money .
today the negro must discover his role in an industrialized south , which indicates that the racial aspect of the southern dilemma hasn't changed radically , but rather has gradually come to be reflected in this new context , this new coat of paint .
this represents a gradual change in an ever-present social problem .
today's evidence , such as the fact that only three southern states ( south carolina , alabama and mississippi ) still openly defy integration , would have astounded many of yesterday's southerners into speechlessness .
his requesting , and often getting , higher wages , better working conditions , better schools -- changes that were slowly emerging even before the supreme court decision of 1954 .
only historical evolution will determine which ) : an abrupt change .
he has frequently refused to move from white lunch counters , refused to obey local laws which he considers unjust , while in other cases he has appealed to federal laws .
a new order is thrusting itself into being .
the modern negro has not made a decisive debut into southern fiction .
while there may still be many faulknerian lucas beauchamps scattered through the rural south , such men appear to be a vanishing breed .
but they obviously mean by this , not a negro personality , but a negro type .
and the success of such an endeavor is , as suggested above , glaringly rare .
the book concerned with the negro's role in an urban society is rare indeed ; ;
all but the most rabid of confederate flag wavers admit that the old southern tradition is defunct in actuality and sigh that its passing was accompanied by the disappearance of many genteel and aristocratic traditions of the reputedly languid ante-bellum way of life .
modern writers , who are supposed to keep their fingers firmly upon the pulse of their subjects , insist upon drawing out this legend , prolonging its burial , when it well deserves a rest after the overexploitation of the past century .
but they can hardly deny that , exaggerated or not , the old panorama is dead .
westbrook further bemoans the southern writers' creation of an unreal image of their homeland , which is too readily assimilated by both foreign readers and visiting yankees : `` our northerner is suspicious of all this crass evidence ( of urbanization ) presented to his senses .
he is too deeply steeped in william faulkner and robert penn warren .
on this trip to the south he wants , above all else , to sniff the effluvium of backwoods-and-sand-hill subhumanity and to see at least one barn burn at midnight '' .
in the meantime , while the south has been undergoing this phenomenal modernization that is so disappointing to the curious yankee , southern writers have certainly done little to reflect and promote their region's progress .
no southern novelist has done for atlanta or birmingham what herrick , dreiser , and farrell did for chicago or dos passos did for new york .
not a single southern author , major or minor , has made the urban problems of an urban south his primary source material .
faulkner culminates the southern legend perhaps more masterfully than it has ever been , or could ever be , done .
he treats it with a mythological , universal application .
even two decades ago in go down , moses faulkner was looking to the more urban future with a glimmer of hope that through its youth and its new way of life the south might be reborn and the curse of slavery erased from its soil .
faulkner traces , in his vast and overpowering saga of yoknapatawpha county , the gradual changes which seep into the south , building layer upon layer of minute , subtle innovation which eventually tend largely to hide the old way .
yet he presents a realm of source material which may well serve other writers if not himself : the problems with which a new south must grapple in groping through a blind adolescence into the maturity of urbanization .
the thousands of city migrants who desert the farms yearly must readjust with even greater stress and tension : the sacred wilderness is gradually surrendering to suburbs and research parks and industrial areas .
most avant-garde creators , true to their interest in the self-sufficiency of pure movement , have tended to dress their dancers in simple lines and solid colors ( often black ) and to give them a bare cyclorama for a setting .
he has designed a matching backdrop and costumes of points of color on white for mr. cunningham's summerspace , so that dancers and background merge into a shimmering unity .
mr. nikolais has made a distinctive contribution to the arts of costume and decor .
to raise the dancer out of his personal , pedestrian self , mr. nikolais has experimented with relating him to a larger , environmental orbit .
he went on to use objects -- hoops , poles , capes -- which he employed as extensions of the body of the dancer , who moved with them .
in each case , the object , the color , even the percussive sounds of the electronic score were designed to become part of the theatrical being of the performer .
or , clad from head to toe in fabric stretched over a series of hoops , the performer may well lose his sense of self in being a `` finial '' .
from this being come new movement ideas that utilize dancer and property as a single unit .
but , since they have rejected both narrative and emotional continuity , how are they to unify the impressive array of materials at their disposal ? ?
others , less consciously but quite probably influenced by the trends of the times , experiment with approaches that parallel those of the contemporary poet , painter , and musician .
the creator trusts his intuition to lead him along a path that has internal validity because it mirrors the reality of his experience .
the unit of form is determined subjectively : `` the heart , by the way of the breath , to the line '' .
an earlier but still influential school of painting , surrealism , had suggested the way of dealing with the dream experience , that event in which seemingly incongruous objects are linked together through the curious associations of the subconscious .
the contemporary painter tends to depict not the concrete objects of his experience but their essences as revealed in abstractions of their lines , colors , masses , and energies .
he accepts the accidents of his brushwork because they provide evidence of the vitality of the experience of creation .
some painters have less interest in the experience of the moment , with its attendant urgencies and ambiguities , than in looking beyond the flux of particular impressions to a higher , more serene level of truth .
the concept remains subjective .
others look to more objective devices of order .
the composer may reverse or invert the order of his original set of intervals ( or rhythms or dynamic changes ) .
but he cannot order his elements by will , either rational or inspired .
musicians who use the chance method also exclude subjective control of formal development .
but a tossing of coins , with perhaps the added safeguard of reference to the oracles of the i ching , the chinese book of changes , dictates the handling of the chosen materials .
some let dances take their form from the experience of creation .
the process stipulates that the choreographer sense the quality of the initial movement he has discovered and that he feel the rightness of the quality that is to follow it .
or it may involve more subtle distinctions : the sway may be gradually minimized or enlarged , its rhythmic emphasis may be slightly modified , or it may be transferred to become a movement of only the arms or the head .
an exploration of these possible relationships constitutes the process of creation and thereby gives form to the dance .
she , too , is concerned with `` the becoming , the process of realization '' , but she does not think in terms of subtle variations of spatial or temporal patterns .
looking back , miss marsicano feels that her ideas may have been influenced by those of jackson pollock .
but her conscious need was to break away from constricting patterns of form , a need to let the experience shape itself .
it may be a free front-back swing of the leg , leading to a sideways swing of the arm that develops into a turn and the sensation of taking off from the ground .
a pervading quality of free lyricism and a building from turns close to the ground towards jumps into the air gives the work its central focus .
he seeks to make his dancers more `` godlike '' by relating them to the impersonal elements of shape , light , color , and sound .
it is through the metamorphosed dancer that the germ of form is discovered .
the theme may be the formation of a shape from which other shapes evolve .
it may establish the relation of the figure of the dancer to light and color , in which case changes in the light or color will set off a kaleidescope of visual designs .
movements unfold freely because they are uninhibited by emotional bias or purposive drive .
though he is also concerned with freeing dance from pedestrian modes of activity , merce cunningham has selected a very different method for achieving his aim .
he bases his approach on the belief that anything can follow anything .
thus , there is freshness not only in the individual movements of the dance but in the shape of their continuity as well .
he cites with pleasure the comment of a lady , who exclaimed after a concert : `` why , it's extremely interesting .
the sequence of movements in a cunningham dance is unlike any sequence to be seen in life .
nearby , another sits motionless , while still another is twirling an umbrella .
they look straight at the audience , not at each other .
if one dancer slaps another , the victim may do a pirouette , sit down , or offer his assailant a fork and spoon .
their consequences are irrelevant -- or there are no consequences at all .
he may toss coins ; ;
the answers derived by these means may determine not only the temporal organization of the dance but also its spatial design , special slips designating the location on the stage where the movement is to be performed .
the only factors that are personally set by the choreographer are the movements themselves , the number of the dancers , and the approximate total duration of the dance .
each performance may be different .
and any sequence can not only change its positions in the work but can even be eliminated from it altogether .
he adheres to its dictates as faithfully as he can .
then the choreographer must arbitrate .
he must construct transitions so that a dancer who is told to lie prone one second and to leap wildly the next will have some physical preparation for the leap .
the truth in their conflicting concepts was expounded by statesmen of the calibre of webster and calhoun , and defended in the end by leaders of the nobility of lincoln and lee .
repeated efforts -- beginning with the missouri compromise of 1821 -- were made by such master moderates as clay and douglas to resolve the difference peacefully by compromise , rather than clear thought and timely action .
nothing can show more than this the immensity of the danger to democratic peoples that lies in even relatively slight deviation from their true concept of sovereignty .
and so i would only touch upon it now ( much as i have long wanted to write a book about it ) .
the difference came down to this : the southern states insisted that the united states was , in last analysis , what its name implied -- a union of states .
this right of the state , its upholders contended , was essential to maintain the federal balance and protect the liberty of the people from the danger of centralizing power in the union government .
writing to speed on august 24 , 1855 , lincoln made the latter point clear .
``
we now practically read it , all men are created equal except negroes .
when it comes to this , i shall prefer emigrating to some country where they make no pretence of loving liberty -- to russia , for instance , where despotism can be taken pure , without the base alloy of hypocrisy '' ( his emphasis )
when the southern states exercised their `` right to secede '' , they formed what they officially styled `` the confederate states of america '' .
the fact is that the southern confederacy differed from the earlier one almost as much as the federal constitution did .
it operated on , by and for the people individually just as did the federal constitution .
the difference between confederacy and federal union in 1861
but though each of its members had asserted this right against the union , the final constitution which the confederacy signed on march 11 -- nearly a month before hostilities began -- included no explicit provision authorizing a state to secede .
their president , jefferson davis , interpreted their constitution to mean that it `` admits of no coerced association '' , but this remained so doubtful that `` there were frequent demands that the right to secede be put into the constitution '' .
they recognized that slavery was a moral issue and not merely an economic interest , and that to recognize it explicitly in their constitution would be in explosive contradiction to the concept of sovereignty they had set forth in the declaration of 1776 that `` all men are created equal , that they are endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights , that among them are life , liberty and the pursuit of happiness .
these are not , however , differences in federal structure .
the one of 1861 made clear that in making their government the people were acting through their states , whereas the preamble of 1787-89 expressed , as clearly as language can , the opposite concept , that they were acting directly as citizens .
`` we the people of the united states , in order to form a more perfect union , establish justice , insure domestic tranquility , provide for the common defence , promote the general welfare , and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity , do ordain and establish this constitution for the united states of america '' .
`` we the people of the confederate states , each state acting in its sovereign and independent character , in order to form a permanent federal government , establish justice , insure domestic tranquility , and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity -- invoking the favor and the guidance of almighty god -- do ordain and establish this constitution for the confederate states of america '' .
but though the southern states , when drafting a constitution to unite themselves , narrowed the difference to this fine point by omitting to assert the right to secede , the fact remained that by seceding from the union they had already acted on the concept that it was composed primarily of sovereign states .
lincoln saw that the act of secession made the issue for the union a vital one : whether it was a union of sovereign citizens that should continue to live , or an association of sovereign states that must fall prey either to `` anarchy or despotism '' .
though his election was interpreted by many southerners as the forerunner of a dangerous shift in the federal balance in favor of the union , lincoln himself proposed no such change in the rights the constitution gave the states .
he issued his emancipation proclamation only when he felt that necessity left him no other way to save the union .
what lincoln could not concede was that the states rather than the people were sovereign in the union .
the truth on each side won in the civil war
out of this ordeal the citizen emerged , in the south as in the north , as america's true sovereign , in `` a new birth of freedom '' , as lincoln promised .
on their decisive battlefield lincoln did not distinguish between them when he paid tribute to the `` brave men , living and dead , who fought here '' .
to my knowledge , lincoln remains the only head of state and commander-in-chief who , while fighting a fearful war whose issue was in doubt , proved man enough to say this publicly -- to give his foe the benefit of the fact that in all human truth there is some error , and in all our error , some truth .
it is much less difficult now than in lincoln's day to see that on both sides sovereign americans had given their lives in the civil war to maintain the balance between the powers they had delegated to the states and to their union .
the 140,414 americans who gave `` the last full measure of devotion '' to prevent disunion , preserved individual freedom in the united states from the dangers of anarchy , inherent in confederations , which throughout history have proved fatal in the end to all associations composed primarily of sovereign states , and to the liberties of their people .
its appeal from ballots to bullets at fort sumter ended by costing the southerners their right to have slaves -- a right that was even less compatible with the sovereignty of man .
there was a divine justice in one wrong thus undoing another .
yet though the southern states lost the worst errors in their case , they did not lose the truth they fought for .
as cells coalesced into organisms , they built new `` unnatural '' and internally controlled environments to cope even more successfully with the entropy-increasing properties of the external world .
one wonders about its applicability to people .
the answer is , of course , yes .
social invention did not have to await social theory any more than use of the warmth of a fire had to await lavoisier or the buoyant protection of a boat the formulations of archimedes .
we have ample light when the sun sets ; ;
we fly through the air , although gravity pulls us down ; ;
at what stage are social sciences then ? ?
there is a haunting resemblance between the notion of cause in copernicus and in freud .
political theoretical understanding , although almost at a standstill during this century , did develop during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries , and resulted in a flood of inventions which increased the possibility for man to coexist with man .
most of these , with horrible exceptions , were conceived as is a ship , not as an attempt to quell the ocean of mankind , nor to deny its force , but as a means to survive and enjoy it .
just as present technology had to await the explanations of physics , so one might expect that social invention will follow growing sociological understanding .
in fact the accumulation of the hardware of destruction is day by day increasing our fear of each other .
i want , therefore , to discuss a second and quite different fruit of science , the connection between scientific understanding and fear .
lucretius has remarked : `` the reason why all mortals are so gripped by fear is that they see all sorts of things happening in the earth and sky with no discernable cause , and these they attribute to the will of god '' .
it is difficult to reconstruct the primeval fears of man .
we are not now afraid of atomic bombs in the same way that people once feared comets .
we are worried about what people may do with them -- that some crazy fool may `` push the button '' .
they are in general those fears that once seemed to have been amenable to prayer or ritual .
they arise in situations in which one believes that what happens depends not only on the external world , but also on the precise pattern of behavior of the individual or group .
yet often fear persists because , even with the most rigid ritual , one is never quite free from the uneasy feeling that one might make some mistake or that in every previous execution one had been unaware of the really decisive act .
but a somewhat more detailed analysis of this process may be illuminating .
it is curious that even centuries of repetition of the yearly cycle did not induce a sufficient degree of confidence to allow people to abandon the ceremonies of the winter solstice .
this understanding provides a very simple example of the fact that one can eliminate fear without instituting any controls .
there is still the remote possibility of planetoid collision .
solar activities could presumably bring long periods of flood or drought .
yet we no longer feel uneasy .
we , in our country , think of war as an external threat which , if it occurs , will not be primarily of our own doing .
what elements of our behavior are decisive ? ?
we have staved off a war and , since our behavior has involved all these elements , we can only keep adding to our ritual without daring to abandon any part of it , since we have not the slightest notion which parts are effective .
if an automobile were approaching him , he would know what was required of him , even though he might not be able to act quickly enough .
he does not know whether to look up or look aside , to put his hands in his pockets or to clench them at his side , to cross the street , or to continue on the same side .
i believe that what i do has some effect on his actions and i have learned , in a way , to commune with drunks , but certainly my actions seem to resemble more nearly the performance of a rain dance than the carrying out of an experiment in physics .
our inability to explain why certain people are fond of us frequently induces the same kind of ritual and malaise .
our collective policies , group and national , are similarly based on voodoo , but here we often lack even the empirically successful rituals and are still engaged in determing them .
we talk about national character in the same way that copernicus talked of the compulsions of celestial bodies to move in circles .
small wonder , then , that we fear .
what additional roles has the scientific understanding of the 19th and 20th centuries played ? ?
in the life sciences , there has been an enormous increase in our understanding of disease , in the mechanisms of heredity , and in bio- and physiological chemistry .
in addition , our way of dealing directly with natural phenomena has also changed .
apparently the population as a whole eventually acquires enough confidence in the explanations of the scientists to modify its procedures and its fears .
in some areas , the progress is slower than in others .
in child care , the opposite extreme prevails ; ;
there are many domains in which understanding has brought about widespread and quite appropriate reduction in ritual and fear .
the persistent horror of having a malformed child has , i believe , been reduced , not because we have gained any control over this misfortune , but precisely because we have learned that we have so little control over it .
in fact , insofar as science generates any fear , it stems not so much from scientific prowess and gadgets but from the fact that new unanswered questions arise , which , until they are understood , create uncertainty .
the situation with regard to our attitude and `` control '' of disease contains close analogies to problems confronting us with respect to people .
nothing like godot , he arrived before the hour .
he was waiting .
american newspaper reviewers like to call his plays nihilistic .
even so astute a commentator as harold clurman of the nation has said that `` waiting for godot '' is `` the concentrate of the contemporary european mood of despair '' .
could it be that my own eyes and ears had deceived me ? ?
or is it relevant because it teaches us something useful to know about ourselves ? ?
nevertheless i was curious .
when beckett's name came into the discussion , the priest grew loud and told me that beckett `` hates life '' .
beckett's appearance is rough-hewn irish .
they look as if they had been sculptured with an unsharpened chisel .
one might say it combines the man ; ;
for he has the pride that comes of self-acceptance and the humility , perhaps of the same genesis , not to impose himself upon another .
he seems , by some unconscious division of labor , to have given them that one function and no other , leaving communication to the rest of the face .
the voice is light in timbre , with a rough edge that corresponds to his visage .
his tweed suit was a baggy gray and green .
we walked down the rue de l'arcade , thence along beside the madeleine and across to a sidewalk cafe opposite that church .
for one thing , the world that beckett sees is already shattered .
i reconstruct his sentences from notes made immediately after our conversation .
`` the confusion is not my invention .
it is all around us and our only chance now is to let it in .
it is not a mess you can make sense of '' .
`` what is more true than anything else ? ?
one is not more true than the other .
when heidegger and sartre speak of a contrast between being and existence , they may be right , i don't know , but their language is too philosophical for me .
one can only speak of what is in front of him , and that now is simply the mess '' .
until recently , art has withstood the pressure of chaotic things .
it realized that to admit them was to jeopardize form .
but now we can keep it out no longer , because we have come into a time when `` it invades our experience at every moment .
i granted this might be so , but found the result to be even more attention to form than was the case previously .
how , i asked , could chaos be admitted to chaos ? ?
if we look at recent art we find it preoccupied with form .
plays more highly formalized than `` waiting for godot '' , `` endgame '' , and `` krapp's last tape '' would be hard to find .
it only means that there will be new form , and that this form will be of such a type that it admits the chaos and does not try to say that the chaos is really something else .
the latter is not reduced to the former .
to find a form that accommodates the mess , that is the task of the artist now '' .
is it not characteristic of the greatest art that it confronts us with something we cannot clarify , demanding that the viewer respond to it in his own never-predictable way ? ?
isn't all art ambiguous ? ?
the classical lines of the church which napoleon thought of as a temple of glory , dominated all the scene where we sat .
`` not this .
this does not allow the mystery to invade us .
but it is different at chartres .
i asked about the battle between life and death in his plays .
hamm's world is death and clov may or may not get out of it to join the living child outside .
`` yes .
if there were only darkness , all would be clear .
take augustine's doctrine of grace given and grace withheld : have you pondered the dramatic qualities in this theology ? ?
how can we make sense of this division ? ?
the destiny of racine's phedre is sealed from the beginning : she will proceed into the dark .
at the beginning of the play she has partial illumination and at the end she has complete illumination , but there has been no question but that she moves toward the dark .
within this notion clarity is possible , but for us who are neither greek nor jansenist there is not such clarity .
but where we have both dark and light we have also the inexplicable .
given a theological lead , i asked what he thinks about those who find a religious significance to his plays .
i have no religious feeling .
it was at my first communion .
my mother was deeply religious .
he knelt down at his bed as long as he could kneel .
the family was protestant , but for me it was only irksome and i let it go .
at the moment of crisis it had no more depth than an old school tie .
when you pass a church on an irish bus , all the hands flurry in the sign of the cross .
but do the plays deal with the same facets of experience religion must also deal with ? ?
some people object to this in my writing .
as if it were perverse to do so ! !
i told him no , that i had had a very happy childhood .
i left the party as soon as possible and got into a taxi .
one does not have to look for distress .
lunch was over , and we walked back to the hotel with the light and dark of paris screaming at us .
he says nothing that compresses experience within a closed pattern .
at the same time , he is plainly sympathetic , clearly friendly .
but there is also compassion .
as a writer on the theater , i have paid close attention to the plays .
yet it is not only europe the play refers to .
the consciousness it mirrors may have come earlier to europe than to america , but it is the consciousness that most `` mature '' societies arrive at when their successes in technological and economic systematization propel them into a time of examining the not-strictly-practical ends of culture .
whether any of us remain in it long will depend on what happens as a result of the technological and economic revolutions now going on in the countries of asia and africa , and also of course on how long the cold war remains cold .
hemingway's fiction is supported by a `` moral '' backbone and in its search for ultimate meaning hints at a religious dimension .
though sex in some form or other enters into all human activity and it was a good thing that freud emphasized this aspect of human nature , it is fantastic to explain everything in terms of sex .
man is not confined to one outlet for his vital energy .
but for the beat generation all is sex .
for the beatnik , like the hipster , is in opposition to a society that is based on the repression of the sex instinct .
it is astarte , ishtar , venus , yahwe , dionysus , christ , the mysterious and divine orgone energy flowing through the body of the universe .
lawrence lipton , in the holy barbarians , stresses that for the beat generation sex is more than a source of pleasure ; ;
the singular uncompromising force of their revolt against the cult of restraint is illustrated by their refusal to dance in a public place .
for this reason , too , their language is more forthright and earthy .
it is therefore not surprising that they resist the lure of marriage and the trap of domesticity , for like cats they are determined not to tame their sexual energy .
unlike the heroes and flappers of the lost generation , they disdain the art of `` necking '' and `` petting '' .
if they avoid the use of the pungent , outlawed four-letter word it is because it is taboo ; ;
as lipton , the prophet of the beat generation , declares : `` in the sexual act , the beat are filled with mana , the divine power .
this is the holy grail these knights of the orgasm pursue , this is the irresistible cosmic urge to which they respond .
in addition , they have been converted to zen buddhism , with its glorification of all that is `` natural '' and mysteriously alive , the sense that everything in the world is flowing .
what they are after is the beatific vision .
the style of life chosen by the beat generation , the rhythm and ritual they have adopted as uniquely their own , is designed to enhance the value of the sexual experience .
jazz is the musical language of sex , the vocabulary of the orgasm ; ;
that is why , the argument runs , the squares are so fearful of jazz and yet perversely fascinated by it .
thus jazz is transmuted into something holy , the sacred road to integration of being .
it is not a substitute for sex but a dynamic expression of the creative impulse in unfettered man .
those who are sexually liberated can become creatively alive and free , their instincts put at the service of the imagination .
let them learn to `` swing '' freely , to let go , to become authentically themselves , and then perhaps civilization will be saved .
if he is the child of nothingness , if he is the predestined victim of an age of atomic wars , then he will consult only his own organic needs and go beyond good and evil .
that is why the members of the beat generation proudly assume the title of the holy barbarians ; ;
apart from the categorical imperative they derive from the metaphysics of the orgasm , the only affirmation they are capable of making is that art is their only refuge .
the mind has betrayed them , reason is the foe of life ; ;
with lyrical intensity they reveal what they hate , but their faith in love , inspired by the revolutionary rhythms of jazz , culminates in the climax of the orgasm .
their rebellion against authoritarian society is not far removed from the violence of revolt characteristic of the juvenile delinquent .
they are non-conformists on principle .
it is sex that obsesses them , sex that is at the basis of their aesthetic creed .
monogamy is the vice from which the abjectly fearful middle class continue to suffer , whereas the beatnik has the courage to break out of that prison of respectability .
if it is an honest feeling , then why should she not yield to it ? ?
there is nothing holy in wedlock .
she finds married life stifling and every prolonged sex relationship unbearably monotonous .
boredom is death .
hence the beatniks sustain themselves on marijuana , jazz , free swinging poetry , exhausting themselves in orgies of sex ; ;
one beat poet composes a poem , `` lines on a tijuana john '' , which contains a few happy hints for survival .
the professed mission of this disaffiliated generation is to find a new way of life which they can express in poetry and fiction , but what they produce is unfortunately disordered , nourished solely on the hysteria of negation .
nymphomaniacs , junkies , homosexuals , drug addicts , lesbians , alcoholics , the weak , the frustrated , the irresolute , the despairing , the derelicts and outcasts of society .
they are full of contempt for the institution of matrimony .
they feel they are leagued against a hostile , persecutory world , faced with the concerted malevolent opposition of squares and their hirelings , the police .
one beatnik got the woman he was living with so involved in drugs and self-analysis and all-night sessions of sex that she was beginning to crack up .
sex as the creative principle of the universe , the secret of primitive religion , the life of myth .
in his chapter on `` the loveways of the beat generation '' , lipton spares the reader none of the sordid details .
the women who come to west venice , having forsaken radicalism , are interested in living only for the moment , in being constantly on the move .
those who are sexual deviants are naturally drawn to join the beatniks .
part of the ritual of sex is the use of marijuana .
the magic circle is , in fact , a symbol of and preparation for the metaphysical orgasm '' .
carried high on this `` charge '' , he composes `` magical '' poetry that captures the organic rhythms of life in words .
for drugs are in themselves no royal road to creativity .
if love reflects the nature of man , as ortega y gasset believes , if the person in love betrays decisively what he is by his behavior in love , then the writers of the beat generation are creating a new literary genre .
across the front of a yard and down the side , they were iron , either spiked along the top or arched in half circles .
side fences were hidden beneath lilacs and hundred-leaf roses ; ;
square corner- and gate posts were an open-work pattern of cast-iron foliage ; ;
on these posts the gates swung open with a squeak and shut with a metallic clang .
the primary quality of that view seems , now , to have been its quietness , but that cannot at the time have impressed us .
from high in the tree , the whole block lay within range of the eye , but the ground was almost nowhere visible .
every path from back door to barn was covered by a grape-arbor , and every yard had its fruit trees .
from above one could only occasionally catch a glimpse of life on the floor of this green sea : a neighbor's gingham skirt flashing into sight for an instant on the path beneath her grape-arbor , or the movement of hands above a clothesline and the flutter of garments hung there , half-way down the block .
another had ended before it began .
the tricks that time plays with memory and memory with time are queerest of all .
in a stream that turns a mill-wheel there is a lot of water ; ;
time in the sum is nothing .
the part of the mind that preserves dates and events may remonstrate , `` it could have been like that for only a little while '' ; ;
once , then -- for how many years or how few does not matter -- my world was bound round by fences , when i was too small to reach the apple tree bough , to twist my knee over it and pull myself up .
i have no picture in my mind of the garden as a whole -- that i could not see -- but certain aspects of certain corners linger in the memory : wind-blown , frost-bitten , white chrysanthemums beneath a window , with their brittle brown leaves and their sharp scent of november ; ;
hot-colored verbenas in the corner between the dining-room wall and the side porch , where we passed on our way to the pump with the half-gourd tied to it as a cup by my grandmother for our childish pleasure in drinking from it .
i think that my grandmother was not an impassioned gardener : she was too indulgent a lover of dogs and grandchildren .
she cherished rare and delicate plants like oleanders in tubs and wall-flowers and lemon verbenas in pots that had to be wintered in the cellar ; ;
these my grandmother left in their places ( they are still there , more persistent and longer-lived than the generations of man ) and planted others like them , that flourished without careful tending .
the peonies , whose tight sticky buds would be blighted by the laying on of a finger , although they were not apparently harmed by the ants that crawled over them ; ;
i have more than once sat cross-legged in the grass through a long summer morning and watched without touching while a poppy bud higher than my head slowly but visibly pushed off its cap , unfolded , and shook out like a banner in the sun its flaming vermilion petals .
the lilacs themselves , that bloomed so prodigally but for the most part beyond our reach ; ;
hollyhock blossoms that , turned upside down , make pink-petticoated ladies ; ;
more potent a charm to bring back that time of life than this record of a few pictures and a few remembered facts would be a catalogue of the minutiae which are of the very stuff of the mind , intrinsic , because they were known in the beginning not by the eye alone but by the hand that held them .
pale yellow snapdragons that by pinching could be made to bite ; ;
red-and-yellow columbines whose round-tipped spurs were picked off and eaten for the honey in them ; ;
bright flowers from the trumpet vine that made `` gloves '' on the ends of ten waggling fingers .
dead fledgling birds , their squashed-looking nakedness and the odor of decay that clung to the hand when they had been buried in our graveyard in front of the purple flags .
every morning early , in the summer , we searched the trunks of the trees as high as we could reach for the locust shells , carefully detached their hooked claws from the bark where they hung , and stabled them , a weird faery herd , in an angle between the high roots of the tulip tree , where no grass grew in the dense shade .
when these had been pocketed , we could still spend a morning cracking open other pebbles for our delight in seeing how much prettier they were inside than their dull exteriors indicated .
squatting on our haunches beside the flat stone we broke them on , we were safe behind the high closed gates at the end of the drive : safe from interruption and the observation and possible amusement of the passers-by .
even when the fences became a part of the game -- when a vine-embowered gate-post was the sleeping beauty's enchanted castle , or when rapunzel let down her golden hair from beneath the crocketed spire , even then we paid little heed to those who went by on the path outside .
in the heat of the summer , the garden solitudes were ours alone ; ;
they never troubled themselves about us while we were playing , because the fence formed such a definite boundary and `` don't go outside the gate '' was a command so impossible of misinterpretation .
we were forbidden to swing on the gates , lest they sag on their hinges in a poor-white-trash way , but we could stand on them , when they were latched , rest our chins on the top , and stare and stare , committing to memory , quite unintentionally , all the details that lay before our eyes .
every slight sound that rose against that pressure fell away again , crushed beneath it .
a wheel squeaked on a hub , was still , and squeaked again .
when the hay wagon had gone , and an interval passed , a huckster's cart might turn the corner .
sleepily , as if half-reluctant to break the silence , he lifted his voice : `` rhu-beb-ni-ice nice fresh rhu-beb today '' ! !
no one seemed to hear him , no one heeded .
it became so monotonous as to seem a part of the quietness .
the sun moved slant-wise across the sky and down ; ;
at four-o'clock , or four-thirty , the coming of the newsboy marked the end of the day ; ;
the streets of any county town were like this on any sunshiny afternoon in summer ; ;
but the fences were still in place fifty-odd years ago , and when we stood on the gate to look over , the sidewalk under our eyes was not cement but two rows of paving stones with grass between and on both sides .
opposite every gate was a hitching post or a stone carriage-step , set with a rusty iron ring for tying a horse .
it was mud in wet weather and dust , ankle-deep , in dry , and could be crossed only at the corner where there were stepping stones .
the hoofmarks of cattle and the prints of bare feet in the mud or in the dust were as numerous as the traces of shod horses .
it is worth dwelling in some detail on the crisis of this story , because it brings together a number of characteristic elements and makes of them a curious , riddling compound obscurely but centrally significant for mann's work .
lautner , for his part , `` belonged to the present-day race of small artists , who do not demand the utmost of themselves '' , and the bitter description of the type includes such epithets as `` wretched little poseurs '' , the devastating indictment `` they do not know how to be wretched decently and in order '' , and the somewhat extreme prophecy , so far not fulfilled : `` they will be destroyed '' .
his appearance as lizzy evokes not amusement but horror in the audience ; ;
at the same time the multiple transvestitism involved -- the fat man as girl and as baby , as coquette pretending to be a baby -- touches for a moment horrifyingly upon the secret sources of a life like jacoby's , upon the sinister dreams which form the sources of any human life .
but it is characteristic of him , we are told , `` his little artifice '' , to be able to introduce `` into a fairly vulgar and humorous piece of hackwork a sudden phrase of genuine creative art '' .
a modulation described as `` almost a stroke of genius '' .
it is this modulation which reveals to jacoby his own frightful abjection and , simultaneously , his wife's infidelity .
he collapses , and dies .
not less strikingly so for being mysterious , as though some deeply hidden constatation of thoughts were enciphered in a single image , a single moment .
the horrifying humor , the specifically sexual embarrassment of the joke gone wrong , the monstrous image of the fat man dressed up as a whore dressing up as a baby ; ;
the bringing together around it of the secret liaison between indolent , mindless sensuality and sharp , shrewd talent , cleverness with an occasional touch of genius ( which , however , does not know `` how to attack the problem of suffering '' ) ; ;
beyond itself , also , it evokes numerous and distant resonances from the entire body of mann's work .
love is the crucial dilemma of experience for mann's heroes .
the release , the freedom , involved in loving another is either terribly difficult or else absolutely impossible ; ;
this prohibition on love has an especially poignant relation to art ; ;
the specific analogy to the dilemma of love is the problem of the `` breakthrough '' in the realm of art .
finally , the theatrical ( and perversely erotic ) notions of dressing up , cosmetics , disguise , and especially change of costume ( or singularity of costume , as with cipolla ) , are characteristically associated with the catastrophes of mann's stories .
for the present it is enough to note that in the grotesque figure of jacoby , at the moment of his collapse , all these elements come together in prophetic parody .
that this abandonment takes place on a stage , during an ' artistic ' performance , is enough to associate jacoby with art , and to bring down upon him the punishment for art ; ;
it appears that the dominant tendency of mann's early tales , however pictorial or even picturesque the surface , is already toward the symbolic , the emblematic , the expressionistic .
something of this can be learned from `` the way to the churchyard '' ( 1901 ) , an anecdote about an old failure whose fit of anger at a passing cyclist causes him to die of a stroke or seizure .
only slightly more , perhaps , than a newspaper account of such an incident would give .
the first sentence , with its platitudinous irony , announces an emblematic intent : `` the way to the churchyard ran along beside the highroad , ran beside it all the way to the end ; ;
and the action is consistently presented with regard for this distinction .
but that is too simple , and won't hold up .
but the highroad , according to the description of its traffic , belongs to life as it is lived in unawareness of death , while the way to the churchyard belongs to some other sort of life : a suffering form , an existence wholly comprised in the awareness of death .
this man's isolation is not merely momentary , it is permanent .
also he is a drunk , and has lost his job on that account .
this strange person quarrels with a cyclist because the latter is using the path rather than the highroad .
`` life '' points out that `` everybody uses this path '' , and starts to ride on .
his rage assumes a religious form ; ;
this passion brings on a fit which proves fatal .
this is simple enough , but several more points of interest may be mentioned as relevant .
piepsam's fatal rage arises not only because he cannot stop the cyclist , but also because god will not stop him ; ;
life is further characterized , in antithesis to piepsam , as animal : the image of a dog , which appears at several places , is first given as the criterion of amiable , irrelevant interest aroused by life considered simply as a spectacle : a dog in a wagon is `` admirable '' , `` a pleasure to contemplate '' ; ;
piepsam calls the cyclist `` cur '' and `` puppy '' among other things , and at the crisis of his fit a little fox-terrier stands before him and howls into his face .
piepsam is not , certainly , religious in any conventional sense .
the two may in fact be identical .
he keeps a bottle in a wardrobe at home , and `` before this wardrobe praisegod piepsam had before now gone literally on his knees , and in his wrestlings had bitten his tongue -- and still in the end capitulated '' .
`` he made no claims to belong to the great and mighty of this earth '' .
his end is ridiculous and trivial .
but he is more interesting than the others , the ones who come from the highroad to watch him , more interesting than life considered as a cyclist .
in method as well as in theme this little anecdote with its details selected as much for expressiveness and allegory as for `` realism '' , anticipates a kind of musical composition , as well as a kind of fictional composition , in which , as leverkuhn says , `` there shall be nothing unthematic '' .
`` gladius dei '' ( 1902 ) resembles `` the way to the churchyard '' in its representation of a conflict between light and dark , between `` life '' and a spirit of criticism , negation , melancholy , but it goes considerably further in characterizing the elements of this conflict .
in particular against a madonna portrayed in a voluptuous style and modeled , according to gossip , upon the painter's mistress .
he is simply thrown out of the shop by the porter .
the `` reality '' to which they respond is rationally empty and their art is an imitation of the inescapable powerfulness of this unknown and empty world .
these polar concerns ( imitation vs. formalism ) reflect a philosophical and religious situation which has been developing over a long period of time .
thus the image of man has suffered complete fragmentation in personal and spiritual qualities , and complete objectification in sub-human and quasi-mechanistic powers .
the image of god has simply disappeared .
the person of the artist becomes a final bastion of meaning in a world rendered meaningless by the march of events and the decay of classical religious and philosophical systems .
without the decay of a sense of objective reference ( except as the imitation of mystery ) , the stress on subjective invention would never have been stimulated into being .
for better or worse we cannot regard `` imitation '' in the arts in the simple mode of classical rationalism or detached realism .
on the other hand , we cannot regard artistic invention as pure , uncaused , and unrelated to the times in which it occurs .
accordingly , it is the aim of this essay to advance a new theory of imitation ( which i shall call mimesis in order to distinguish it from earlier theories of imitation ) and a new theory of invention ( which i shall call symbol for reasons to be stated hereafter ) .
the word `` mimesis '' ( `` imitation '' ) is usually associated with plato and aristotle .
all artistic and mythological representations , therefore , are `` imitations of imitations '' and are completely superseded by the truth value of `` dialectic '' , the proper use of the inquiring intellect .
presupposed in plato's system is a doctrine of levels of insight , in which a certain kind of detached understanding is alone capable of penetrating to the most sublime wisdom .
the poetics , in affirming that all human arts are `` modes of imitation '' , gives a more serious role to artistic mimesis than did plato .
for both plato and aristotle artistic mimesis , in contrast to the power of dialectic , is relatively incapable of expressing the character of fundamental reality .
following the theme of incarnation in the gospels , the christian artist and critic sees in the most commonplace and ordinary events `` figures '' of divine power and reality .
artistic mimesis under christian influence records the involvement of all persons , however humble , in a divine drama .
he is the conveyor of a sacred reality by which he has been grasped .
in the first instance , `` mimesis '' is here used to mean the recalling of experience in terms of vivid images rather than in terms of abstract ideas or conventional designations .
this is the primary function of the imagination operating in the absence of the original experiential stimulus by which the images were first appropriated .
the images themselves , like their counterparts in experience , are not neutral qualities to be surveyed dispassionately ; ;
they bring an inextricable component of value within themselves , with attractions and repulsions native to their own quality .
mimesis here is not to be confused with literalism or realism in the conventional sense .
similarly experience itself can be conventionalized so that people react to certain preconceived clues for behavior without awareness of the vitality of their experiential field .
the mimetic character of the imaginative consciousness tends to express itself in the presentation of artistic forms and materials .
these are like the initial ways in which the world forces itself upon the self and thrusts the self into decision and choice .
underlying these conceptions of mimesis are certain presuppositions concerning the nature of primary human experience which require some exposition before the main argument can proceed .
neither is primary experience understood according to the attitude of modern empiricism in which nothing is thought to be received other than signals of sensory qualities producing their responses in the appropriate sense organs .
in contrast to all this , primary data are data of a self involved in environing processes and powers .
a desire to avoid and repel this or that other part .
gone is the tabula rasa of the mind .
the principal defender of this view of primary experience as `` causal efficacy '' is alfred north whitehead .
we feel the quality of these powers initially as in some degree wholesome or threatening .
it takes a great deal of abstraction to free oneself from the primitive impression of larger unities of power and influence and to view one's world simply as a collection of sense data arranged in such and such sequence and pattern , devoid of all power to move the feelings and actions except in so far as they present themselves for inspection .
he is questioning , also , every epistemology which stems from hume's presupposition that experience is merely sense data in abstraction from causal efficacy , and that causal efficacy is something intellectually imputed to the world , not directly perceived .
as long as perception is seen as composed only of isolated sense data , most of the quality and interconnectedness of existence loses its objectivity , becomes an invention of consciousness , and the result is a philosophical scepticism .
in this respect experience is broader and full of a richer variety of potential meanings than the mind of man or any of his arts or culture are capable of making clear and distinct .
both i and my feelings come up out of a chain of events that fan out into the past into sources that are ultimately very unlike the entity which i now am .
there were more indications by the mid-twentieth century .
in town after town my companion pointed out the negro school and the white school , and in every instance the former made a better appearance ( it was newer , for one thing ) .
but with the renewal of interference in 1954 ( as with its beginning in 1835 ) , the improvement was impaired .
it's infuriating , this feeling that one is being picked on , continually , constantly .
the traditional strategy of the south has been to expose the vices of the north , to demonstrate that the north possessed no superior virtue , to `` show the world that '' as james's christopher newman said to his adversaries ) `` however bad i may be , you're not quite the people to say it '' .
at the present time , the counter-attack takes the line that there's no more of the true spirit of `` integration '' in the north than in the south .
people talk about `` the law of the land '' .
but people can't be made to integrate , socialize ( the two are inseparable by southern standards ) by law .
they didn't seem to be able to think of any .
but i suspect that the old roman was referring to change made under military occupation -- the sort of change which tacitus was talking about when he said , `` they make a desert , and call it peace '' ( `` solitudinem faciunt , pacem appellant '' .
moreover , the law of the land is not irrevocable ; ;
it has been , many times .
prohibition was the law of the land , but it was unpopular ( how many of us oldsters took up drinking in prohibition days , drinking was so gay , so fashionable , especially in the sophisticated northeast ! !
the cliche loses its talismanic virtue in the light of a little history .
the phrase `` consent of the governed '' needs a hard look .
is the consent of the governed a numerical majority ? ?
to guard against the tyranny of a numerical majority , calhoun developed his theory of `` concurrent majority '' , which , he said , `` by giving to each portion of the community which may be unequally affected by the action of government , a negative on the others , prevents all partial or local legislation '' .
that regional peculiarities do not still exist ? ?
who will deny that in a vast portion of the south the federal action is incompatible with the jeffersonian concept of `` the consent of the governed '' ? ?
a friend of mine in new mexico said the court order had caused no particular trouble out there , that all had gone as merry as a marriage bell .
i murmured something about a possible difference between new mexico's history and mississippi's .
southern liberals ( there are a good many ) -- especially if they're rich -- often exhibit blithe insouciance .
you've already sent your daughter to miss x's select academy for girls and your son to mr. y's select academy for boys , and you can be as liberal as you please with strict impunity .
new england academies welcome fugitives from the provinces , south as well as west .
it would be interesting to know how much `` integration '' there is in the famous , fashionable colleges and prep schools of new england .
that is , about one-half of one per cent , which looks pretty `` tokenish '' to me , especially in an institution which professes to be `` national '' .
i leave out of account the question of the best interests of the children , the question of what their best interests really are .
if these people were denied a voice ( do they have a moral right to a voice ? ?
who is involved willy nilly ? ?
and it is precisely in this poorer economic class that one finds , and has always found , the most racial friction .
being a teacher of american literature , i remembered whittier's `` massachusetts to virginia '' , where he said : `` but that one dark loathsome burden ye must stagger with alone , and reap the bitter harvest which ye yourselves have sown '' .
and one finds it again in thomas nelson page ) to the effect that the mayflower on its second voyage brought a cargo of negro slaves .
complicity is an embarrassing word .
like the cowboy in stephen crane's `` blue hotel '' , we run around crying , `` well , i didn't do anything , did i '' ? ?
a man must be able to say , `` father , i have sinned '' , or there is no hope for him .
he also spoke of `` the wealth piled by the bondsman's two hundred and fifty years in unrequited toil '' .
after how many generations is such wealth ( mounting all the while through the manipulations of high finance ) purified of taint ? ?
but didn't they get off too easy ? ?
they were the beneficiaries of responsible , paternalistic care .
who is the owner ? ?
pay him '' ! !
it ignores the sordid financial aspects ( quite conveniently , too , for his audience , who could indulge in moral indignation without visible , or even conscious , discomfort , their money from the transaction having been put away long ago in a good antiseptic brokerage ) .
but can one , really ? ?
new englanders were a bit sensitive on the subject of their complicity in negro slavery at the time of the drafting of the declaration of independence , as jefferson explained in his `` autobiography '' : ``
our northern brethren also i believe felt a little tender under those censures ; ;
but that was a long time ago .
george w. cable ( naturalized new englander ) , writing in 1889 from `` paradise road , northampton '' ( lovely symbolic name ) , agitated continuously the `` southern question '' .
new england , as everyone knows , has long been schoolmaster to the nation .
why should this be so ? ?
but i think that something more than this is involved .
isn't it a bit odd that the three states of southern new england ( massachusetts , connecticut , and rhode island ) have had state institutions of university status only in the very recent past , these institutions having previously been a & m colleges ? ?
is it not ironical that roger williams's state , rhode island , should have been the very last of the forty-eight to establish a state university ? ?
they had less immigration to contend with .
he was referring not only to the general college situation but more especially to the preparatory schools .
i don't propose to go into their history , but i have one or two surmises .
in the early days of a homogeneous population , the public school was quite satisfactory .
of these there are surely few that would be more rewarding discoveries than verner von heidenstam , the swedish poet and novelist who received the award in 1916 and whose centennial was celebrated two years ago .
in the following sketch we shall present a brief outline of his life and let him as much as possible speak for himself .
on his father's side he was of german descent , on his mother's he came of the old swedish nobility .
it is a lonely , rather desolate region , but full of legendary and historic associations .
he liked to fancy himself as a chieftain and to dress for the part .
in one of his summers at home he married , to the great disapproval of his father , who objected because of his extreme youth .
he gives us an account of this in his lively and humorous poem , `` the happy artists '' .
i looked unceasingly with my cold mind and with my burning heart '' .
few writers have better understood their deepest selves .
it may , however , be noted that his gift for color and imagery must have been greatly stimulated by his stay in paris .
it was a brilliant debut , so much so indeed that it aroused a new vitality in the younger poets , as did byron's childe harold .
strongly colorful , plastic , racy , vivid .
all is seen and felt and experienced , the observation is sharp and the imagination lively .
he tells stories of the thousand and one nights , and conjures up before us the bazaars of damascus .
and yet amid all the gay hedonism in pilgrimage and wander-years is a cycle of short poems , `` thoughts in loneliness '' , filled with brooding , melancholy , and sombre longing '' .
it celebrates the unknown architect who designed the temple of neptune at paestum , next to the parthenon the noblest example of grecian classic style now in existence .
the supreme object of their lives is now fulfilled , says the wife , her husband has achieved immortality .
`` the man's true reputation is his work '' .
it consists of fragmentary personal revelations , such as `` the spark '' : `` there is a spark dwells deep within my soul .
it slips away , it burns and tortures me .
a dominant motive is the poet's longing for his homeland and its boyhood associations : `` not men-folk , but the fields where i would stray , the stones where as a child i used to play '' .
what he really wants is to find `` a sacred cause '' to which he can honestly devote himself .
his cause was to commemorate the glory of her past and to incite her people to perpetuate it in the present .
his next major work , completed in 1892 , was a long fantastic epic in prose , entitled hans alienus , which professor book describes as a monument on the grave of his carefree and indolent youth .
he is driven back by his yearning to the wintry homeland of his fathers in the forest of tiveden '' .
by the death of his father in 1888 he had come into possession of the family estate and had re-assumed its traditions .
like his friend and contemporary august strindberg he had little patience with collective mediocrity .
strindberg's remedy for this condition was to tear down the old structures and build anew from the ground up .
whether in prose or poetry , all of heidenstam's later work was concerned with sweden .
in scope and power it can only be compared to tolstoy's war and peace .
though it centers around the brilliant and enigmatic figure of charles 12 , , the true hero is not finally the king himself .
on the fatal battlefield of poltava , to quote from the novel , `` the wreath he twined for himself slipped down upon his people '' .
somewhat uneven in interest for an average reader , eight or ten of these are among the finest of their kind in literature .
the general effect is tragic .
to carry out this exalted conception the author has combined the vivid realism and imaginative power we have noticed in his early poetry and carried them out on a grand scale .
george meredith has said that fervor is the core of style .
the charles men has a tremendous range of characters , of common folk even more than of major figures .
his ideal was alexander of macedon , as napoleon's was julius caesar .
each aspired to be a god in human form , but with each it was a different kind of god .
each is still glorified as a national hero .
after the collapse of that desperate and ill-fated campaign the character of the king degenerated for a time into a futility that was not merely pitiable but often ridiculous .
there are , however , some wonderful chapters at the beginning of the second part , concerning the reactions of the swedes in adversity .
this comes out in `` when the bells ring '' , which describes the rallying of the peasants in southern sweden to repel an invasion by the danes .
he finds it in utter misery and desolation .
but he plunges into yet another , this time with norway , and is killed in an assault on the fortress of fredrikshall , being only thirty-six years of age when he died .
then suddenly there was a tremendous revulsion of popular feeling .
this is brought out in the next to last chapter of the book , `` a hero's funeral '' , written in the form of an impassioned prose poem .
the guns are fired , the hymns are sung , and the body of charles is carried down to the vault and laid beside the tombs of his ancestors .
heidenstam wrote four other works of fiction about earlier figures revered in swedish memory .
it is different with his volume the swedes and their chieftains ( svenskarna och deras hovdingar ) , a history intended for the general reader and particularly suited for high school students .
some of the earlier episodes have touches of the supernatural , as suited to the legendary background .
especially touching is the chapter , `` the little sister '' , about a king's daughter who became a nun in the convent of st. birgitta .
gustaf vasa is a superb example , and charles 10 , , the conqueror of denmark , hardly less so .
today the private detective will also investigate insurance claims or handle divorce cases , but his primary function remains what it has always been , to assist those who have money in their unending struggle with those who have not .
the mythological private eye differs from his counterpart in real life in two essential ways .
as a free-lance investigator , the fictional detective is responsible to no one but himself and his client .
on the other hand , the fictional detective does not break strikes or handle divorce cases ; ;
whatever his original assignment , the fictional private eye ends up by investigating and solving a crime , usually a murder .
he catches criminals not merely because he is paid to do so ( frequently he does not receive a fee at all ) , but because he enjoys his work , because he firmly believes that murder must be punished .
he is , first and foremost , a defender of public morals , a servant of society .
by virtue of his self-reliance , his individualism and his freedom from external restraint , the private eye is a perfect embodiment of the middle class conception of liberty , which amounts to doing what you please and let the devil take the hindmost .
in this way , the private detective gets the best of two possible worlds .
he is a public servant but not a cop .
in the mystery story , as in the wealth of nations , individualism and the social good are two sides of the same benevolent coin .
not only did the ideal entrepreneur not produce the greatest good for the greatest number , he ended by destroying himself , by giving birth to monopoly capitalism .
now , although the roots of the mystery story in serious literature go back as far as balzac , dickens , and poe , it was not until the closing decades of the 19th century that the private detective became an established figure in popular fiction .
thus the transformation of adam smith's ideal entrepreneur into a mythological detective coincides closely with the decline of the real entrepreneur in economic life .
the birth of the myth compensates for the death of the ideal .
the individualism and public service of the private detective both stem from his dedication to a personal code of conduct : he enforces the law without being told to do so .
but his morality rests upon that of his society .
unfortunately , this assumption does not always hold good .
if he is good , he may not be legal ; ;
it is the gradual unfolding and deepening of this contradiction which creates the inner dialectic of the evolution of the mystery story .
sherlock holmes is not merely an individualist ; ;
a brief list of the great detective's little idiosyncrasies would provide dr. freud with ample food for thought .
he is prone to semi-catatonic trances induced by the playing of the vioiln ; ;
holmes rebels against the social conventions of his day not on moral but rather on aesthetic grounds .
it was in order to avoid the stuffy routine of middle class life that holmes became a detective in the first place .
these little problems help me to do so '' .
but the society which he serves bores him to tears .
although he is perfectly willing to cooperate with scotland yard , holmes has nothing but contempt for the intelligence and mentality of the police .
why do the police find holmes `` unorthodox '' ? ?
another , more interesting explanation , is hinted at by watson when he observes on several occasions that holmes would have made a magnificent criminal .
watson's insight is verified by the mysterious link between holmes and his arch-opponent , dr. moriarty .
the first series of sherlock holmes adventures ends with holmes and moriarty grappling together on the edge of a cliff .
linked to holmes even in death , moriarty represents the alter-ego of the great detective , the image of what our hero might have become were he not a public servant .
in the modern english `` whodunnit '' , this insinuation of latent criminality in the detective himself has almost entirely disappeared .
poirot and his counterparts are perfectly respectable people ; ;
their dedication to the status quo has been affirmed at the expense of the fascinating but dangerous individualism of a sherlock holmes .
they fled from the victorian parlor and made their way across the stormy atlantic .
like holmes , the american private eye rejects the social conventions of his time .
surrounded by crime and violence everywhere , the `` hardboiled '' private eye can retain his purity only through a life of self-imposed isolation .
he is not an eccentric but rather an outcast .
wolfe refuses to ever leave his own house , and spends most of his time drinking beer and playing with orchids .
in a society where everything is for sale , marlowe is the only man who cannot be bought .
beaten , bruised and exhausted , he pursues the elusive killer through the demi-monde of high society and low morals , always alone , always despised .
virtue is its own and only reward .
sam spade joins forces with a band of adventurers in search of a priceless jeweled statue of a falcon ; ;
now the detective must save his own skin by informing on the girl he loves , who is also the real murderer .
moreover , it is increasingly difficult to distinguish between the two .
the latter are either too stupid to catch the killer or too corrupt to care .
perry mason and hamilton burger , nero wolfe and inspector cramer spend more time fighting each other than they do in looking for the criminal .
dashiell hammett's red harvest provides a classic example of this theme .
he is , like phillip marlowe , too alienated to be reliable .
in order to exonerate himself , he is compelled to find the real criminal , who happens to be his girl friend .
it is the growing contradiction between individualism and public service in the mystery story which creates this fatal dilemma .
that society responds by condemning the private eye as a threat to the status quo , a potential criminal .
he must , in short , cease to be a detective and become a rebel .
dashiell hammett resolved this contradiction by ceasing to write mystery stories and turning to other pursuits .
in order to save the mystery story , they have converted the private detective into an organization man .
at first glance , this hero seems to be more rather than less of an individualist than any of his predecessors .
he kills when he pleases , takes his women where he finds them and always acts as judge , jury and executioner rolled into one .
great stress is placed on the role that the monitoring of information sending plays in maintaining the effectiveness of the network .
as a word of caution , we should be aware that in actual practice no message is purely one of the four types , question , command , statement , or exclamation .
this sentence would have most of the characteristics of a question , but it has some of the characteristics of a statement because the questioner has conveyed the fact that he has no faith in his own timepiece or the one attached to his car .
also , since the man questioned feels a strong compulsion to answer ( and thereby avoid the consequences of being thought queer ) the question has assumed some measurable properties of a command .
on this basis , certain extreme kinds of networks will be discussed for illustrative purposes .
the cocktail party .
the party is usually in a room small enough so that all guests are within sight and hearing of one another .
since the air is a continuum , the network of communication remains intact regardless of the positions or motions of the points ( the people ) in the net .
this , and other qualifications , make the cocktail party the most complete and most chaotic communication system ever dreamed up .
the completeness of the connections provide that , for n people , there are af lines of communication between the pairs , which can become a large number ( 1,225 ) for a party of fifty guests .
thus the cocktail party would appear to be the ideal system , but there is one weakness .
the crowd consequently breaks up into temporary groups ranging in size from two to six , with a half-life for the cluster ranging from three to twenty minutes .
the rural community .
we assume for this illustration that the size of the land plots is so great that the distance between dwellings is greater than the voice can carry and that most of the communication is between nearest neighbors only , as shown in figure 2 .
in figure 2 , the points in the network are designated by a letter accompanied by a number .
it will be noted that point f has seven nearest neighbors , h and e have six , and p has only one , while the remaining points have intermediate numbers .
a point like p gets information directly from n , but all information beyond n is indirectly relayed through n .
since the hazards of poor communication are so great , p can be justified as a habitable site only on the basis of unusual productivity such as is made available by a waterfall for milling purposes , a mine , or a sugar maple camp .
military organizations .
they also furnish proof that , in modern war , message sending must be monitored .
the need for monitoring became greater when radio was adopted for military signaling .
as time has passed and science has progressed , the speed of military vehicles has increased , the range of missiles has been extended , the use of target-hunting noses on the projectiles has been adopted , and the range and breadth of message sending has increased .
on the parade ground the net may be similar to that shown in figure 3 .
no questions , statements , or explanations are permitted -- only commands .
the same command is repeated as many times as there are levels in rank from general to corporal .
even the officer in charge , be it a captain ( for small display ) or a general , is restrained by monitoring .
the commands are specified by the military regulations ; ;
and are combinable into sequences which permit any marching maneuver that could be desired on a parade ground .
with troops dispersed on fields of battle rather than on the parade ground , it may seem that a certain amount of monitoring is automatically enforced by the lines of communication .
in contrast to cocktail parties , military organizations , even in the field , are more formal .
a military organization has an objective chosen by the higher command .
the connective system , or network , is tailored to meet the requirements of the objective , and it is therefore not surprising that a military body acting as a single coordinated unit has a different communication network than a factory , a college , or a rural village .
( b ) a message runs too great a risk of being distorted if it is to be relayed more than about six consecutive times .
and ( d ) all action of a physical kind pertinent to the mission is relegated to the line of men on the lower rank .
the number of people acting as one body by this scheme gives a surprisingly large army of 55,987 men .
of types of message listed in table 1 , commands and statements are the only ones sent through the vertical network shown in figure 3 .
questions and , particularly , exclamations are usually channeled along informal , horizontal lines not indicated in figure 3 and seldom are carried beyond the nearest neighbor .
furthermore , the network in figure 3 is only the basic net through which other networks pertaining to logistics and the like are interlaced .
such problems are of extreme interest as well as importance and are so much like fighting in a rain forest or guerrilla warfare at night in tall grass that we might have to re-examine primitive conflicts for what they could teach .
this is an unsolved problem which probably has never been seriously investigated , although one frequently hears the comment that we have insufficient specialists of the kind who can compete with the germans or swiss , for example , in precision machinery and mathematics , or the finns in geochemistry .
this problem of the optimum balance in the relative numbers of generalists and specialists can be investigated on a communicative network basis .
first , we realize that a pure specialist does not exist .
for example , there are persons who are in physical science , in the field of mineralogy , trained in crystallography , who use only x-rays , applying only the powder technique of x-ray diffraction , to clay minerals only , and who have spent the last fifteen years concentrating on the montmorillonites ; ;
so we see that a specialist is a man who knows more and more about less and less as he develops , as contrasted to the generalist , who knows less and less about more and more .
those familiar with his work will remember that he placed the incipience of the democratic faith at around 1850 .
i want to say more about gabriel's so-called fundamental law .
he points out that from the time of jackson on through world war 1 , , evangelical protestantism was a dominant influence in the social and political life of america .
let me quote him even more fully , for his analysis is important to my theme .
he specifies , `` in the middle period of the nineteenth century it was colored by christian supernaturalism , in the twentieth century it was affected by naturalism .
and let me add , utopianism , also .
i used his polarity to illustrate what i thought had happened to us in that form of liberalism we call progressivism .
that is to say gabriel's fundamental law had been so much modified by this time that it was neither fundamental nor law any more .
and with progressivism the religion of humanity was replacing what gabriel called christian supernaturalism .
during the decade that followed , the common man , as that piece put it , grew uncomfortable as the voice of god and fled from behind saint woodrow ( wilson ) only to learn from science , to his shocked relief that after all there was no god he had to speak for and that he was just an animal anyhow -- that there was a chemical formula for him , and that too much couldn't be expected of him .
what had happened to the common man ? ?
the riotous onrush of industrialism after the war for southern independence and the general secular drift to the religion of humanity , however , prepared the way for a reception of the french revolution's socialistic offspring of one sort of another .
moreover the centralization of our economy during the 1920s , the dislocations of the depression , the common ethos of materialism everywhere , all contributed in various ways to the face-lifting that replaced mike fink and the great gatsby with the anonymous physiognomy of the little people .
that john locke's philosophy of the social contract fathered the american revolution with its declaration of independence , i believe , we generally accept .
the importance of rousseau's twist has not always been clear to us , however .
and it is clearly argued by lord percy of newcastle , in his remarkable long essay , the heresy of democracy , and in a more general way by voegelin , in his new science of politics , that this same rousseauan idea , descending through european democracy , is the source of marx's theory of the dictatorship of the proletariat .
the long road that had taken liberals in this country into the social religion of democracy , into a worship of man , led logically to the marxist dream of a classless society under a socialist state .
and by the time the war ended , liberal leadership in this country was spiritually marxist .
we of the liberal-led world got all set for peace and rehabilitation .
during the next five years the leaders of the fair deal reluctantly backed down from the optimistic expectations of the new deal .
in 1952 , it will be remembered , the g.o.p. without positive program campaigned on the popular disillusionment with liberal leadership and won overwhelmingly .
but i have been at some pains to review it as the drama of the common man , to point up what happened to him under eisenhower's leadership .
he opens his discourse , however , with a review of the eisenhower inaugural festivities at which a sympathetic press had assembled its massive talents , all primed to catch some revelation of the emerging new age .
lubell offers his book as an explanation of why there was no clue .
i will assume that we are all aware of the continuing struggle , with its limited and precarious success , toward conservatism .
obviously there has been no agreement on what american conservatism is , or rather , what it should be .
i saw a piece the other day assailing william buckley , author of man and god at yale and publisher of the national review , as no conservative at all , but an old liberal .
but i'm not here to define conservatism .
one of the obvious conclusions we can make on the basis of the last election , i suppose , is that we , the majority , were dissatisfied with eisenhower conservatism .
this is , however , symptomatic of our national malaise .
i will mention two volumes of specific comment on this malaise that appeared last year .
the contributors to this testament were all well-known : a former democratic candidate for president , a new deal poet , the magazine's chief editorial writer , two newspaper columnists , head of a national broadcasting company , a popular protestant evangelist , etc. .
i suppose we might classify billy graham as an old liberal .
its refrain was : `` let us return to the individualistic democracy of our forefathers for our salvation '' .
others invoked technology and common sense .
but the most notable thing about the incantation of these ex-liberals was that the one-time shibboleth of socialism was conspicuously absent .
they , perhaps , gave the pitch of their position in the preface where it was said that eisenhower requested that the commission be administered by the american assembly of columbia university , because it was non-partisan .
and here again we hear the same refrain mentioned above : `` the paramount goal of the united states set long ago was to guard the rights of the individual , ensure his development , enlarge his opportunity '' .
but it is the need to undertake these testaments that i would submit here as symptom of the common man's malaise .
father murray goes back to the declaration of independence , too , though i may add , with considerably more historical perception .
as symptomatic of the common man's malaise , he is most significant : a liberal and a catholic , elected by the skin of his teeth .
what is the common man's complaint ? ?
and the basic character of that liberalism has been spiritual rather than economic .
but there's a subjective side to that utopian outlook .
here there may be an analogy with cancer : we can detect cancers by their rapidly accelerating growth , determinable only when related to the more normal rate of healthy growth .
noting such evidence is the first step ; ;
one way to determine whether we have so dangerous a technology would be to check the strength of our society's organs to see if their functioning is as healthy as before .
in any event , whether society may have cancer , or merely a virus infection , the `` disease '' , we shall find , is political , economical , social , and even medical .
hence the prime issue , as i see it , is whether a democratic or free society can master technology for the benefit of mankind , or whether technology will rule and develop its own society compatible with its own needs as a force of nature .
otherwise , we go on endlessly trying to draw the line , color and other , as to which kind of man we wish to see dominate .
we must believe we have the ability to affect our own destinies : otherwise why try anything ? ?
naturally this includes all communication forms , e.g. languages , or any social , political , economic or religious structures employed for such control .
if we were creating a wholly new society , we could insist that our social , political , economic and philosophic institutions foster rather than hamper man ; ;
but we cannot start off with a clean slate .
asked which institution most needs correction , i would say the corporation as it exists in america today .
but hear harrison e. salisbury , former moscow correspondent of the new york times , and author of `` to moscow -- and beyond '' .
they were not diplomats or jazz musicians , or even organizers of reading-rooms and photo-montage displays , but rugged capitalist entrepreneurs like henry ford , hugh cooper , thomas campbell , the international harvester co. , and david w. griffith .
this favorable image of america in the minds of russian men and women is still there despite years of energetic anti-american propaganda ''
.
in his stead is a milquetoast version known as `` the corporation '' .
and our loss of `` prestige '' abroad is the direct result .
if we want respect from ourselves or others , we will have to earn it .
businesses must develop as a result of the ideas , energies and ambitions of an individual having purpose and comprehensive ability within one mind .
the biggest loss , of course , was the individual's lessened desire and ability to give his services to the growth of his company and our economy .
but let us not complain of the evils of capitalism by referring to a form that is not truly capitalistic .
but the pseudo-capitalism which dictates our whole economy as well as our politics and social life , will not stand close scrutiny .
it serves only its own stockholders and poorly at that .
as to benefits to employees , it is notorious for its callous disregard except where it depends on them for services .
but while the corporation has all the disadvantages of the socialist form of organization ( so cumbersome it cannot constructively do much of anything not compatible with its need to perpetuate itself and maintain its status quo ) , unluckily it does not have the desirable aspect of socialism , the motivation to operate for the benefit of society as a whole .
the corporation has a limited , specific place in our society .
examples are in public utilities , making military aircraft and accessories , or where the investment and risk for a proprietorship would be too great for a much needed project impossible to achieve by any means other than the corporate form , e.g. constructing major airports or dams .
in all other areas , private initiative of the `` proprietorship '' type should be urged to produce the desired goods and services .
avoiding runaway technology can be done only by assuring a humane society ; ;
such genuine human leadership the proprietorship can offer , corporations cannot .
corporations react violently to short-range stimuli , e.g. , quarterly and annual dividend reports .
corporations , being more amorphous , cannot .
corporations are apt by nature to be impersonal , inhumane , shortsighted and almost exclusively profit-motivated , a picture they could scarcely afford to present to the public .
leadership is lacking in our society because it has no legitimate place to develop .
hence government must establish greater controls upon corporations so that their activities promote what is deemed essential to the national interest .
corporations should pay added taxes , to be used for educational purposes ( not necessarily of the formal type ) .
to perpetuate wealth control led by small groups of individuals who played no role in its creation prevents those with real initiative from coming to the fore , and is basically anti-democratic .
strikes should be declared illegal against corporations because disagreements would have to be settled by government representatives acting as controllers of the corporation whose responsibility to the state would now be defined against proprietorship because employees and proprietors must be completely interdependent , as they are each a part of the whole .
certainly external forces should not be applied arbitrarily out of mere power available to do so .
one kind of proprietorship
individual human strength is needed to pit against an inhuman condition .
we are tempted to blame others for our problems rather than look them straight in the face and realize they are of our own making and possible of solution only by ourselves with the help of desperately needed , enlightened , competent leaders .
in my own company , in effect a partnership , although legally a corporation , i have been able to do many things for my employees which `` normal '' corporations of comparable size and nature would have been unable to do .
any abilities i may have were achieved in their present shape from experience in sharing in the growth and control of my business , coupled with raising my family .
perhaps a list of some of the `` practices '' of my company will help here .
from an initial investment of $1,200 in 1943 , it has grown , with no additional capital investment , to a present value estimated by some as exceeding $10,000,000 ( we don't disclose financial figures to the public ) .
and no limitation is in evidence .
during the last years of woodrow wilson's administration , a red scare developed in our country .
postmaster general burleson set about to protect the american people against radical propaganda that might be spread through the mails .
then , not many years later , the un-american activities committee , under the leadership of martin dies , pilloried hundreds of decent , patriotic citizens .
this hysteria reached its height under the leadership of senator joseph mccarthy .
new ideas were dangerous and must be repressed , no matter how .
they give strict interpretation to william james' statement that `` every idea that enters the mind tends to express itself '' .
hence , the only defensible procedure is to repress any and every notion , unless it gives evidence that it is perfectly safe .
they are priceless even though they cannot be recorded on a ledger page ; ;
so all-important are ideas , we are told , that persons successful in business and happy in social life usually fall into two classes : those who invent new ideas of their own , and those who borrow , beg , or steal from others .
that , however , may also bring the police , if the thinking does not meet with social approval .
merely having a mental image of some sort is not the all-important consideration .
but clarity is not enough .
an inmate , a former university professor , expounded to us , logically and clearly , that someone was pilfering his thoughts .
despite the clarity of his presentation , his idea was not of einsteinian calibre .
but have we not gone overboard in stressing their significance ? ?
ideas we must have , and we seek them everywhere .
here we find stored the wisdom of great minds .
can they stand rigid scrutiny ? ?
but was he infallible in all things ? ?
shakespeare gives us a vivid picture of shylock , but probably he never saw a jew , unless in some of his travels .
if any had escaped expulsion by hiding , they certainly would not frequent the market-place .
rather than from a first-hand study of jewish people , his delineation of shylock stems from a collection of italian stories , il pecorone , published in 1558 , although written almost two centuries earlier .
harris j. griston , in shaking the dust from shakespeare ( 216 ) , writes : `` there is not a word spoken by shylock which one would expect from a real jew '' .
the jew was the safest victim .
it would have been unwise policy , for instance , to apply the pound-of-flesh characterization to the thrifty scotchman .
who cares about them ! !
he sets him forth as being typical of the group .
but a jewish heart .
there is no justification for such misrepresentation .
reading the old testament would have shown the dramatist that the ideas attributed to shylock were abhorrent to the jews .
studying the merchant of venice in high school and college has given many young people their notions about jews .
thomas de torquemada , inquisitor-general of the spanish inquisition , put many persons to death .
would we gain by keeping alive his memory and besmirching today's roman catholics by saying he had a catholic heart ? ?
he is out of place in our times .
ideas , in and of themselves , are not necessarily the greatest good .
will his words come to be treasured and quoted through the years ? ?
but is that not like going to a chemistry laboratory and blindly pouring out liquids and powders from an array of bottles and then , after stirring , expecting a new wonder drug inevitably to result ? ?
is there some magic in it that assures results ? ?
the leopard's spots came from the pen of thomas dixon in 1902 , and in this he announced an `` unchangeable '' law .
that doctrine has been accepted by many , but has it produced good results ? ?
the son and heir of a prominent family marries a girl who has tell-tale shadows on the half-moons of her finger nails .
is the world better for having this idea thrust upon it ? ?
for answers to such questions we must turn to the anthropologists , the biologists , the historians , the psychologists , and the sociologists .
false ideas surfeit another sector of our life .
the stepmother , almost without exception , has been presented as a cruel ogress .
debate is not likely to resolve the tensions and make the lot of the stepchild a happier one .
helen deutsch informed us ( the psychology of women , vol. 2 , , 434 ) that in all cultures `` the term ' stepmother ' automatically evokes deprecatory implications '' , a conclusion accepted by many .
that is questionable , to say the least .
most assuredly ideas are invaluable .
in the 1930's , cures for the depression literally flooded washington .
ideas need to be tested , and not merely by argument and debate .
we have recourse to the scientifically-trained specialist in the laboratory .
our presidential campaigns provide much debate and argument .
man , we are told , is endowed with reason and is capable of distinguishing good from bad .
we are reminded , however , that freedom of thought and discussion , the unfettered exchange of ideas , is basic under our form of government .
no holds are barred .
may we state with confidence that in such an exhibition a republic will find its greatest security ? ?
in truth , we can say that this broke the power of senator joseph mccarthy , who was finally exposed in full light to the american people .
debate in the political arena can be productive of good .
debate rid us of mccarthy but did not give us much that is positive .
it did not even provide the architect's plan for anything new .
in the field of the social sciences a considerable fund of tested knowledge has been accumulated that can be used to good advantage .
they provide stimulations that lead to further production .
the president's personality would have opened that office to him .
it is testimony to the deep respect in which mr. eisenhower was held by members of all parties that the moral considerations raised by his approach to the matter were not explicitly to be broached .
and if howard rutstein felt impelled thereafter to formulate the ethics of the medical profession , his article in the atlantic monthly accomplished a good deal more .
the discussion of professional ethics inevitably reminded us that in the historical perspective the president's decision will finally clarify itself as a moral , rather than a medical , problem .
for the president had dealt with the matter humbly , in what he conceived as the democratic way .
any attempt to reconcile this statement of the central issue in the campaign of 1956 with the nature of the man who could not conceive it as the central issue will at least resolve our confusions about the chaotic and misleading results of the earnestness of both doctors and president in a situation which should never have arisen .
in no other situation would a group of doctors , struggling competently to improve the life expectancy of a man beloved by the world , be subjected to such merciless and persistent questioning , and before they were prepared to demonstrate the kind of verbal precision which alone can clarify for mankind the problems it faces .
it recurred in the press conferences : the president's remarks about his running developed a singular tone , one which we find in few statements made by public individuals on such a matter .
he commented -- thoughtfully , a reporter told us -- that it was `` not too important for the individual how he ends up '' .
yet the attitude that the fate of the presidency demands in such a situation is quite distinct from the simple courage that can proceed with battles to be fought , regardless of the consequences .
the presidency demands an incisive awareness of the larger implications of the death of any incumbent .
only when that term is ended and he is a private citizen again can he be permitted the freedom and the courage to discount the dangers of his death .
at the national and international level , then , what is the highest kind of morality for the private citizen represents an instance of political immorality .
for the tone of the editorials which greeted mr. eisenhower's original announcement of his running had been strangely disquieting .
nothing testifies more clearly to that cleavage than the peculiar editorial page appearing in a july issue of life magazine , the issue which also carried the second announcement of the candidacy .
`` the moral creed '' and `` the will to risk '' live happily together , if we do not examine where the line is to be drawn .
`` my doctors assure me that this increased percentage of risk is not great '' .
only infrequently did the situation color his thinking .
so it is that we relive his opening statement in the first television address with the dramatic immediacy of the present .
yet with a mind less shallow , if less sharp , than some of the fortune-happy syndicates which back him , he feels what he cannot formulate ; ;
moving as he is into the phase of the campaign which demands conviction of him , he adopts a position that is morally indefensible .
what is simply an opinion formed in defiance of the laws of human probability , whether or not it is later confirmed , has become by september of the election year `` a firm conviction '' .
but it is also the climax to one of the absorbing chapters in our current political history .
in any other man this reassurance to the electorate would have caused us a profound moral shock .
we knew that it was , as reassurance , the ironic fruit of a deeply moral nature .
and in the context of drifting personal utterances we have examined , there was occasional evidence of the origin of all such evasions .
thinking had stopped ; ;
the portrait that had developed , fragmentarily but consistently , was the portrait of a man to whom serious thinking is alien enough that the making of a decision inhibits , when it does not forestall , any ability to review the decision in the light of new evidence .
instead it means that the thinking in which decision issues has the power to determine the morality of the decision , as in this instance the pressure for renewed practical or legislative attention to the constitutional problems the decision had uncovered might have done .
despite three warnings , no sense of moral urgency impelled him to distinguish his situation , and thus his responsibilities , from wilson's .
only by means of an intensive preoccupation with the detailed considerations following from any decision can he ensure attention to the practical details to be dealt with if the implications of immorality in the major decision are effectively to be checked .
like lincoln , he can distinguish his relation to god from the constitutional responsibilities a questionable decision exacts of him .
he chooses to subordinate one to the other , sometimes reluctantly , accepting criticism for the lesser immoralities facts breed .
the capacity for making the distinctions of which diplomacy is compact , and the facility with language which can render them into validity in the eyes of other men are the leader's means for transforming the moral intuition into moral leadership .
lincoln's slow progress towards the several marking his achievement is even now unrecognizable as such , and loosely interpreted as the alternation of inconsistency with vision .
only recently , and perhaps because a television debate can so effectively dramatize president kennedy's extraordinary mastery of detail , have the abilities on which the capacity for making distinctions depend begun to be clearly discernible at the level of politics .
and it is surely clear that the first of these is the result of the way in which the individual's command of language interacts with the other two .
the liberal-conservative division , we might observe in passing , is not of itself directly involved in a private interest conflict nor even in struggle between ruling groups .
the division is not between those who wish to preserve what they have and those who want change .
these ways are absolutely irreconcilable because they offer two different recipes for man's redemption from chaos .
on the most primitive level .
there is no socially existential answer to the question .
in this phase of change , no idea has social acceptance and so none has ontological status in the community .
if we examine the three types of change from the point of view of their internal structure we find an additional profound difference between the third and the first two , one that accounts for the notable difference between the responses they evoke .
the first involves a simple shift of interests in the society .
thus in both types attention is focused on the community itself , and its phenomenological life .
voegelin has analyzed this experience in the case of the stable , healthy community .
this , however , cannot be done by a community whose very experience of truth is confused and incoherent : it has no absolute standard , and consequently cannot distinguish the absolute from the contingent .
relativism and equality are its characteristic diseases .
for paradigmatic history `` breaks '' rather than unfolds precisely when the movement is from order to disorder , and not from one order to a new order .
when disruptive change has penetrated to the third level of social order , the process of disruption rapidly reaches a point of no return .
at that point we reach the `` closed '' historical situation : the situation in which man is no longer free to return to a status quo ante .
the reasons for this experience are rooted in the metaphysical characteristics of such a change .
its ontological status is itself most tenuous because apart from individual men , who are its `` matter '' , tradition , the `` form '' of society exists only as a shared perception of truth .
the content of that psychological status determines , ultimately , the content of civilization .
civilization itself -- tradition -- falls out of existence when the human spirit itself becomes confused .
its massive contours are rooted in the simple need of man , since he is always incomplete , to complete himself .
he needs existential completion , he needs , that is , to move in the direction of completion .
he must , consequently , exist as a self-perceived substantive , developing agent , or he does not exist as man .
this happens at the moment man loses the perception of moral substance in himself , of a nature that , in maritain's words , is perceived as a `` locus of intelligible necessities '' .
thus human perception and human volition is the immanent cause of all social change and this most truly when the change reaches the civilizational level .
further , change is a form of motion , it occurs as the act of a being in potency insofar as it is in potency and has not yet reached the terminus of the change .
a number of considerations suggest that this occurs early in the process .
this means that the inception of change itself can begin only when the factors conducive to change have already become more powerful than those anchoring the existent form in being .
in the case of social decay , form is displaced simply by the process of dissolution with no form at the terminus of the process .
and when we consider the tenuous hold tradition has on existence , any weakening of that hold constitutes a crisis of existence .
however , the crisis occurs precisely as a weakening of spiritual forces .
the emergence of the crisis itself would seem to constitute a warranty for the victory of disorder .
as a further characterization of the liberal conservative split we may observe that it involves differences in the formula for escaping inevitabilities in history .
unanalyzed responses
to experience them , it is not necessary for a people to be actively aware of what is happening to it .
within the individual the reaction has been called various names , all , however , pointing to the same basic experience .
others call it `` alienation '' , and mean by that no simple economic experience ( as marx does ) but a deep spiritual sense of dislocation .
we note the use of rhetoric as a weapon , the manipulation of the masses by propaganda , the `` mobilization '' of effort and resources .
these responses are explicable in terms of characteristics inherent in the crisis .
the response of reaction is dominated by a concern for what is vanishing .
to this end political authority is called upon to exercise its negative and coercive powers .
seemingly , order is perceived as a kind of subsistent entity now covered by adventitious accretions .
such a response , of course , misses the point that in crisis order is going out of existence .
the most reaction can achieve is stasis , and a stasis that can be maintained only by the expenditure of an effort which ultimately exhausts itself .
since a civilizational crisis involves also a crisis in private interests and in the ruling class , reaction is normally found among those who feel themselves to be among the ruling class .
since civilizational change is the most difficult to perceive and analyze , it seldom is given adequate attention .
the basic truth in the reactionary response is to be found in its realistic assumption of the primacy of the real over the ideational .
the reactionary misses the point that tradition exists ontologically only in the form of psychological-intellectual relations .
in its defensive formulations , the theory will attack conscious change on the grounds of the independent existence of the community .
in both cases the individual tends to be treated as an instrument of the organic reality .
reaction is rooted in a perception of tradition as a whole .
there is no selectivity ; ;
the point is that the reactionary , for whatever motive , perceives himself to have been part or a partner of something that extended beyond himself , something which , consequently , he was not able to accept or reject on the basis of subjective preference .
all of which brings up another problem in the use of psychoanalytic insight in a literary work .
if we remove ourselves for a moment from our time and our infatuation with mental disease , isn't there something absurd about a hero in a novel who is defeated by his infantile neurosis ? ?
a man in a novel who is defeated in his childhood and condemned by unconscious forces within him to tiredly repeat his earliest failure in love , only makes us a little weary of man ; ;
now we can argue that the irresistible fate of oedipus rex was nothing more than the irresistible unconscious longings of oedipus projected outward , but this externalization of unconscious conflict makes all the difference between a story and a clinical case history .
but a novel in which one man karamazov explored the divisions within his personality would scarcely merit publication in the psychoanalytic quarterly .
whatever the psychological truth in the oedipus myth , an oedipus who is drawn to his fate by irresistible external forces can carry the symbol of humanity and its archaic crime , and the incest that is unknowing renews the mystery of the eternal dream of childhood and absorbs us in the secret .
i am suggesting that a case-history approach to the oedipus complex is a blind alley for a storyteller .
incest is still a durable theme , but if it wants to get written about it will have to find ways to surprise the emotions , and there is no better way to do this than that of concealment and symbolic representation .
which brings to mind another lawrence story and some interesting comparisons in the treatment of the oedipal theme .
if i now risk some comparisons with sons and lovers let it be clear that i am not comparing the two works or judging their merits ; ;
`` the rocking horse winner '' is a fantasy with extraordinary power to disturb the reader -- but we do not know why .
there are ghostly scenes in which the little boy on his rocking horse rocks madly toward the climax that will magically give him the name of the winning horse .
the story ends in the child's illness and delirium brought on by the feverish compulsion to ride his horse to win for his mother .
i had read the story many times without asking myself why it affected me or caring why it did .
it was , of course , a little boy's fantasy of winning his mother to himself , and replacing the father who could not give her the things she wanted -- a classical oedipal fantasy if you like -- but if it were only this the story would be banal .
how does the rocking exert its uncanny effect upon the reader ? ?
the rocking , i realized , is the single element in the story that carries the erotic message , the unspoken and unconscious undercurrent that would mar the innocence of a child's fantasy and disturb the effects of the work if it were made explicit .
it conceals and yet is suggestive ; ;
and if we understand the rocking as an erotic symbol we can also see how well it serves as the symbol of impending tragedy .
we are also struck by the fact that this story of a boy's love for his mother does not offend , while the incestuous love of the man , paul morel , sometimes repels .
this love belongs to childhood ; ;
and when the child dies in lawrence's story in a delirium that is somehow brought on by his mania to win and to make his mother rich , the manifest absurdity of such a disease and such a death does not enter into our thoughts at all .
i am sure that none of the effects of this story were consciously employed by lawrence to describe an oedipal fantasy in childhood .
he was simply writing a story that wanted to be told , and in the writing a childhood fantasy of his own emerged .
in our own time we have seen that the novelist's debt to psychoanalysis has increased but that the novel itself has not profited much from this marriage .
the young writer seems intimidated by psychological knowledge ; ;
he borrows the insights of psychology to improve his impaired vision but cannot bring to his work the distinctive vision that should be a novelist's own .
if many of the characters in contemporary novels appear to be the bloodless relations of characters in a case history it is because the novelist is often forgetful today that those things that we call character manifest themselves in surface behavior , that the ego is still the executive agency of personality , and that all we know of personality must be discerned through the ego .
2 .
but a writer who has a taste for irony and who sees incest in all its modern dimensions can let his imagination work on the disturbing joke in the incest myth , the joke that strikes right at the center of man's humanness .
there is probably some significance in the fact that two of the best incest stories i have encountered in recent years are burlesques of the incest myth .
the oracle speaks false and the dream speaks true .
the heroic act is the casting off of pretense .
it was conceived as a leave-taking , a kind of melancholy gathering-in of the myths of the west , `` bevor die nacht sinkt , eine lange nacht vielleicht und ein tiefes vergessen '' .
but the holy sinner is not simply a retelling of old stories for an old man's entertainment .
and when he retold the legend of gregorius he interpolated a modern version in which the medieval players speak contemporary thoughts in archaic language ; ;
grigorss is the child of an incestuous union between a royal brother and sister , the twins sibylla and wiligis .
the infant is discovered by a fisherman who brings him home to rear him .
grigorss , at seventeen , learns his story and goes forth as a knight to uncover his origins .
grigorss overcomes the suitor in battle , delivers the city from its oppressors and marries sibylla who had fallen in love with the beautiful knight the moment she saw him .
grigorss goes off to do penance on a rock for seventeen years .
grigorss comes to rome and becomes a great and beloved pope .
mother and son recognize each other and , in mann's version of this legend , make a remarkable confession of guilt to each other , the confession of unconscious motive and unconscious knowledge of their true identities from the time they had first set eyes on each other .
moreover , he organized the movement of his forms , within his rigorously shaped space , into highly complex equilibriums ; ;
the worthy mondrian , seeing these pictures , said in a tone of kindly reproof : `` but you are really an artist of the naturalistic tradition '' ! !
his `` monumental '' abstraction , made up of smooth , metallic `` non-objects '' acting upon each other with great tension , won helion much acclaim during the 'thirties .
as helion's work showed more and more nostalgia for the world of man and nature , the pure abstractionists expressed some disapproval ; ;
his canvases nowadays bore titles frankly declaring them to be `` figures in space '' , or `` blue figure '' , or `` pink figure '' ; ;
exhibited in shows in london in 1935 , and in new york the following year , the new , more elaborated abstracts were much favored in the circles of the modernists as three-dimentional dramas of great intellectual coherence .
in america , meyer schapiro observed that , unlike the mondrian school , helion `` sought a return path to the fullness of nature within the framework of abstract art '' .
abstract art was still the right path for him ; ;
later helion wrote of this phase : `` for years i built for myself a subtle instrument of relationships -- colors and forms without a name .
but his own work was evolving further .
he was engaged in constant experiments that searched for new directions .
he himself did not know , as he said in 1935 .
during the 1920's the abstractionists , the german bauhaus group of industrial designers , and the new architects all had the dream of some well ordered utopia , or welfare state , in which their neat and logical constructions might find their proper place .
`` we were possessed by visions of a new civilization to come , very pure and elevated '' , he has said , `` in fact some ideal form of socialism such as we had dreamed of since the war of 1914-1918 '' .
very much the political man , helion felt himself deeply affected by the increasingly pessimistic atmosphere of france and all europe , whose foundations seemed to him more and more shaky .
the rooseveltian america was a haven of liberalism and progress and seemed to him to constitute the last best hope for civilization .
`` i arrived in the united states with the idea of establishing myself there more or less permanently and finding inspiration for new compositions '' .
after a year in a studio on sheridan square , having married an american girl who was a native of virginia , helion moved to a village in the blue ridge mountains , where he produced some of the most imposing of his abstract canvases .
`` fear possessed me , and the certainty of war '' , he has related .
in haste he labored to finish some last abstract paintings : a three-panel frieze , with a flying figure and a fallen figure ; ;
and in early 1939 , a `` fallen figure '' of very ominous character , which concluded his abstract phase .
with those paintings of big constructions crashing down , he felt he could stop .
he had taken out first papers for american citizenship ; ;
`` i hated the war '' , he said , `` but thought i ought to go because i was , perhaps , one of those who hadn't done enough to prevent it '' .
its first apparition was a long , gloomy column of refugees riding in farm wagons , or pushing prams .
after a sort of death march during four days without food , helion and his comrades were shipped by cattle-car to a labor camp at an estate farm in east germany .
at the time of his capture helion had on his person a sketchbook he had bought at woolworth's in new york .
`` it was then i knew that they were making war against man , the individual within ! !
at stettin the university-educated artist , who had studied german , was chosen to serve as interpreter and clerk in the office of the stalag commander .
in the stalag , helion came to know and love his comrades , most of them plain folk , who , in their extremity , showed true courage and ran great risks to help each other .
in the prison camp's black market civilian clothes were quietly bought and forged papers were devised for him ; ;
every morning contingents of prisoners would be sent out to labor in nearby factories .
as helion wrote afterward : ``
four hands were stretched toward me by my comrades behind me .
finot held a wallet with my money and papers ; ;
they felt rough and kind and warm .
duclos ran toward desprez with fists raised .
shedding his prison cloak , helion shot through the gates , now clad in civilian garments and with the passport of a flemish worker .
he wrote : ``
not only loathing of captivity , but a faith , a hope that is even stronger .
they too loved their families , longed for their villages : yet lacked the faith that drove one to dare the fearful chance of escape '' .
even the most rational of men , under great stress , may be transported by a new faith and behave like mystics .
after that , he declared , `` to return to freedom was to fall to one's knees before the real world and adore it '' .
now all his desires centered on `` rediscovering and singing of the prosaic and yet beautiful world of men and objects so long barred from me by a barbed wire fence '' .
before leaving for america , he happened to see his old friend jean arp and confided to him his new resolutions .
everything in the way of representation has already been done by the old masters '' .
while convalescing in his virginia home he wrote a book recording his prison experiences and escape , entitled : they shall not have me published originally in ( helion's ) english by dutton & co. of new york , in 1943 , the book was received by the press as a work of astonishing literary power and one of the most realistic accounts of world war 2 , from the french side .
and the author , who seemed the embodiment of france's rising spirit of resistance to her conquerors , was much complimented for his daring military action .
between 1944 and 1947 helion had a series of one-man shows -- at the paul rosenberg gallery in new york and in paris -- of his new realistic pictures .
these new pictures focussed on the familiar and commonplace objects that he had heard the men in his prison camp talking about as the things they missed most , hence associated with the sense of lost freedom : the cafe at the corner , the newspaper kiosk , the girls in doorways and windows along the street , the golden-crusted french bread they lacked , the cigarettes denied them .
others were of men doffing their hats to each other , carrying umbrellas with pomp , reading newspapers , or simply showing loaves of bread spread out .
he and also mr. cowley and mr. warren have fallen to the temptation which besets many of us to read into our authors -- nathaniel hawthorne , for example , and herman melville -- protests against modernism , material progress , and science which are genuine protests of our own but may not have been theirs .
if he is a traditionalist , he is an eclectic traditionalist .
if he sees the heroic in a sartoris or a sutpen , he sees also -- and he shows -- the blind and the mean , and he sees the compson family disintegrating from within .
faulkner is a most untraditional traditionalist .
among them are frederick j. hoffman , william van o'connor , and mrs. olga vickery .
faulkner's is not the mind of the apologist which mr. o'donnell implies that it is .
that is not to deny that he has been aware of traditions , of course , that he is steeped in them , in fact , or that he has dealt with them , in his books .
he has employed from his section rich immediate materials which in a loose sense can be termed southern .
some of us might be inclined to argue , in fact , that an independence of mind and action and an intolerance of regimentation , either mental or physical , are particularly southern traits .
it would not be easy to discover a more thoroughly southern pedigree than that of his family .
the young william faulkner in new orleans in the 1920's impressed the novelist hamilton basso as obviously conscious of being a southerner , and there is no evidence that since then he has ever considered himself any less so .
it is more difficult with faulkner than with most authors to say what is the extent and what is the source of his knowledge .
his denials of extensive reading notwithstanding , it is no doubt safe to assume that he has spent time schooling himself in southern history and that he has gained some acquaintance with the chief literary authors who have lived in the south or have written about the south .
but in looking at faulkner against his background in mississippi and the south , it is important not to lose the broader perspective .
evidence is plentiful that early and later also he has been indebted to the gothic romancers , who deal in extravagant horror , to the symbolists writing at the end of the preceding century , and in particular to the stream-of-consciousness novelists , henry james and james joyce among them .
my intention , therefore , is not to say that faulkner's awareness has been confined within the borders of the south , but rather that he has looked at his world as a southerner and that presumably his outlook is southern .
a useful comment on his relation to his region may be made , i think , by noting briefly how in handling southern materials and southern problems he has deviated from the pattern set by other southern authors while remaining faithful to the essential character of the region .
the thoroughgoing idealization of the planter society did not come , however , until after the civil war when southern writers were eager to defend a way of life which had been destroyed .
their books found no less willing readers outside than inside the south , even while memories of the war were still sharp .
although faulkner was the heir in his own family to this tradition , he did not have stark young's inclination to romanticize and sentimentalize the planter society .
faulkner has found it useful , but he has employed it with his habitual independence of mind and skeptical outlook .
it may be that in this comment he has broken from the conventional pattern more violently than in any other regard , for the treatment in his books is far removed from even the genial irony of ellen glasgow , who was the only important novelist before him to challenge the conventional picture of planter society .
they have an ancestry extending back , however , at least to 1728 , when william byrd described the lubberlanders he encountered in the back country of virginia and north carolina .
these narratives of coarse action and crude language appeared first in local newspapers , as a rule , and later found their way between book covers , though rarely into the planters' libraries beside the morocco-bound volumes of horace , mr. addison , mr. pope , and sir walter scott .
william gilmore simms , sturdy realist that he was , pleaded for a natural robustness such as he found in his favorites the great elizabethans , to vivify the pale writings being produced around him .
augustus baldwin longstreet , a preacher and a college and university president in four southern states , published the earliest of these backwoods sketches and in the character ransy sniffle , in the accounts of sharp horse-trading and eye-gouging physical combat , and in the shockingly unliterary speech of his characters , he set an example followed by many after him .
johnson jones hooper , whose character simon suggs bears a close kinship to flem snopes in both his willingness to take cruel advantage of all and sundry and the sharpness with which he habitually carried out his will ; ;
it would be profitable , i believe , to read these realistic humorists alongside faulkner's works , the thought being not that he necessarily read them and owed anything to them directly , but rather that they dealt a hundred years ago with a class of people and a type of life which have continued down to our time , to faulkner's time .
such characters , with their low existence and often low morality , produce humorous effects in his novels and tales , as they did in the writing of longstreet and hooper and harris , but it need not be added that he gives them far subtler and more intricate functions than they had in the earlier writers ; ;
one of the early humorists already mentioned , thomas bangs thorpe , can be used to illustrate another point where faulkner touches authentic southern materials and also earlier literary treatment of those materials .
but thorpe saw also the hardships of pioneer existence , the cultural poverty of the frontier settlements , and the slack morality which abounded in the new regions .
and he wrote also the masterpiece of frontier humor , `` the big bear of arkansas '' , in which earthy realism is placed alongside the exaggeration of the backwoods tall-tale and the awe with which man contemplates the grandeur and the mysteries of nature .
as a humanist , dr. huxley interests himself in the possibilities of human development , and one thing we can say about this suggestion , which comes from a leading zoologist , is that , so far as he is concerned , the scientific outlook places no rigid limitation upon the idea of future human evolution .
there may be a case of this sort , but it is not one we wish to argue , here .
even if men eventually find themselves able to look through walls and around corners , one may question whether this will help them to live better lives .
such capacities are impressive evidence pointing to a conception of the human being which does not appear in the accounts of biologists and organic evolutionists ; ;
all we want from dr. huxley's statement is the feeling that this is an open world , in the view of the best scientific opinion , with practically no directional commitments as to what may happen next , and no important confinements with respect to what may be possible .
each man , that is , is both one and many .
he is a parent with a child to nurture , here and now , and he is an educator who worries about the children half way round the world .
he can sacrifice himself for tomorrow and he can sacrifice tomorrow for himself .
he is the stern guardian of the status quo who has raised the utilitarian structures of the age , and he is the revolutionary poet with a gun in his hand who writes a tragic apologetic to posterity for the men he has killed .
for what do the utopians labor ? ?
the pamphlets are about law , the corporation , forms of government , the idea of freedom , the defense of liberty , the various lethargies which overtake our major institutions , the gap between traditional social ideals and the working mechanisms that have been set in motion for their realization .
there is another kind of ardor , a quiet , sure devotion to the fundamental decencies of human life , but no angry utopian contentions .
you could also say that in these pamphlets is a relieving quality of maturity .
this is the good kind of sophistication , and with all our problems and crises this kind of sophistication has flowered in the united states during recent years .
mr. lyford gives voice to a temper that represents , we think , an achieved plateau of reflective thinking .
he begins : ``
as things turned out , however , we have not profited greatly from the lesson : instead of persistently following a national program of our own we have often been satisfied to be against whatever soviet policy seemed to be at the moment .
the defensiveness has been exaggerated by another bad habit , our tendency to rate the `` goodness '' or `` badness '' of other nations by the extent to which they applaud the slogans we circulate about ourselves .
shocked at the response to our proclamations , we grow more defensive , and worse , we lose our sense of humor and proportion .
one thing you can say about mr. lyford is that he does not suffer from any insecurity as an american .
only the strong look squarely at weakness .
mr. lyford continues : ``
we would be ignoring the special circumstances of other countries .
the discrepancy between what we commonly profess and what we practice or tolerate is great , and it does not escape the notice of others .
what is more , the legends have become so sacrosanct that the very habit of self-examination or self-criticism smells of low treason , and men who practice it are defeatists and unpatriotic scoundrels .
the interesting thing about mr. lyford's approach , and the approach of the contributors to the agreeable autocracies ( oceana publications , 1961 ) to the situation of american civilization , is that it is concerned with comprehending the psychological relationships which are having a decisive effect on american life .
they are determined to prove something .
the problem is rather to find out what is actually happening , and this is especially difficult for the reason that `` we are busily being defended from a knowledge of the present , sometimes by the very agencies -- our educational system , our mass media , our statesmen -- on which we have had to rely most heavily for understanding of ourselves '' .
we experience a vague uneasiness about events , a suspicion that our political and economic institutions , like the genie in the bottle , have escaped confinement and that we have lost the power to recall them .
it does not appear that we will be delivered from our situation by articles on the national purpose .
the men who speculate on these institutions have , for the most part , come to at least one common conclusion : that many of the great enterprises and associations around which our democracy is formed are in themselves autocratic in nature , and possessed of power which can be used to frustrate the citizen who is trying to assert his individuality in the modern world '' .
of one thing we can be sure : they were not sketched out by the revolutionary theorists of the eighteenth century who formulated the political principles and originally shaped the political institutions of what we term the `` free society '' .
going back over this ground and analyzing the composition of forces which have created the present scene is one of the tasks undertaken by the center for the study of democratic institutions , in santa barbara .
the host is the flowing life of the human race .
on occasion it produces extraordinary novelties .
how would thomas jefferson feel after reading factories in the field ? ?
with these we shape our destiny and own private property , and that , sir , makes ours the best of all possible societies .
many of us may even be secretly relieved at having a plausible excuse to delegate ancient civic responsibilities to a new bureaucracy of experts .
the stockholder delivers his proxy ; ;
copernicus did not question it , ptolemy could not .
the reasons for this are partly observational , partly philosophical , and reinforced by other aesthetic and cultural factors .
the obvious natural fact to ancient thinkers was the diurnal rotation of the heavens .
nor did a constellation's stars vary in brightness during the course of their nocturnal flights .
moreover , the sun's path over earth described a segment of a great circle ; ;
as early as the 6th century b.c. the earth was seen to be spherical .
approaching shore their masts appeared first .
so , e.g. did aristotle argue , although this may not be an observational reason in favor of circularity .
in light of all this , one would require special reasons for saying that the paths of the heavenly bodies were other than circular .
or oviform ? ?
there were no reasons for such suppositions then .
additional philosophical considerations , advanced notably by aristotle , supported further the circularity principle .
now what is perfect motion ? ?
because motion which begins and ends at discrete places would ( e.g. for aristotle ) be incomplete .
it is never motion towards something .
perfect , complete entities , if they move at all , do not move towards what they lack .
thus , circular motion is itself one of the essential characteristics of completely perfect celestial existence .
a candle alight in the air directs its flame and smoke upwards .
thus earth has fallen to the center of the universe .
pure fire ( the stars ) is in the heavens .
the stars constitute an order of existence different from what we encounter on earth .
a projectile shot up from earth returns rectlinearly to its ' natural ' place of rest .
being less encumbered by material embodiments they partake more of what is divine .
let us re-examine the publicized contrasts between ptolemaic and copernican astronomy .
copernicus' achievement was to have invented systematic astronomy .
indeed , in the halma edition of theon's presentation of the hypotheses there is a chart setting out ( under six distinct headings ) otherwise unrelated diagrams for describing the planetary motions .
they all have this in common : the earth is situated near the center of the deferent .
he might even suppose the planets to move at infinity .
his problem concerns longitudes , latitudes , and angular velocities .
but none of this has prevented scientists , philosophers , and even historians of science , from speaking of the ptolemaic system , in contrast to the copernican .
it is engendered by confounding the aristotelian cosmology in the almagest with the geocentric astronomy .
this is what necessitates the nonsystematic character of his astronomy .
it is the chief merit in copernicus' work that all his planetary calculations are interdependent .
he cannot describe eclipses without entertaining some form of a three-body problem .
in a systematic astronomy , like that of copernicus , retrogradations become part of the conceptual structure of the system ; ;
another contrast stressed when discussing ptolemaic vs. copernican astronomy , turns on the idea of simplicity .
some even say that this is the reason for the ultimate acceptance of the former .
copernicus , by placing the sun at the center of the planetary universe , was able to reduce the number of epicycles from eighty-three to seventeen .
as an illustration of the principle of simplicity the heliocentric discovery has a peculiar appeal because it allows simplicity to be arithmetized ; ;
without careful qualification this can be misleading .
but no single planetary problem ever required of ptolemy more than six epicycles at one time .
calculations within the copernican framework always raised questions about planetary configurations .
this is more ambitious than ptolemy is ever required to be when he faces his isolated problems .
the latter required juggling several elements simultaneously .
analogously , anyone who argues that einstein's theory of gravitation is simpler than newton's , must say rather more to explain how it is that the latter is mastered by student-physicists , while the former can be managed ( with difficulty ) only by accomplished experts .
but ' simplicity ' here refers to systematic simplicity .
the axioms required to make the theoretical machinery operate are set out tersely and powerfully , so that all permissible operations within the theory can be traced rigorously back to these axioms , rules , and primitive notions .
there are in the almagest no rules for determining in advance whether a new epicycle will be required for dealing with abberations in lunar , solar , or planetary behavior .
the lower-level hypotheses are never ' ad hoc ' , never introduced ex post facto just to sweep up within the theory some recalcitrant datum .
de revolutionibus is not just a collection of facts and techniques .
solving astronomical problems requires , for copernicus , not a random search of unrelated tables , but a regular employment of the rules defining the entire discipline .
it provides exactly the same reason .
it is really the funeral day of scholastic science .
but , considered within technical astronomy , a different pattern can be traced .
what in the almagest draws his fire ? ?
no .
this arrangement was for copernicus literally monstrous : `` with ( the ptolemaists ) it is as though an artist were to gather the hands , feet , head and other members for his images from divers models , each part excellently drawn , but not related to a single body ; ;
copernicus required a systematically integrated , physically intelligible astronomy .
that such deficiencies existed within ptolemy's theory was not discovered de novo by copernicus .
the latter looked backward upon inherited deficiencies .
he did not think himself to be firing the first shot of an intellectual revolution .
into the texture of this tapestry of history and human drama henrietta , as every artist delights to do , wove strands of her own intuitive insights into human nature and -- especially in the remarkable story of the attraction and conflict between two so disparate and fervent characters as this pair -- into the relations of men and women : `` in their relations , she was the giver and he the receiver , nay the demander .
one is so accustomed to think of men as the privileged who need but ask and receive , and women as submissive and yielding , that our sympathies are usually enlisted on the side of the man whose love is not returned , and we condemn the woman as a coquette .
usually , this is most exasperating to men , who expect every woman to verify their preconceived notions concerning her sex , and when she does not , immediately condemn her as eccentric and unwomanly .
women themselves have come to look upon matters in the same light as the outside world , and scarcely find any wrong in submitting to the importunities of a stronger will , even when their affections are withheld .
one who invites such trials of character is either foolhardy , overconfident or too simple and childlike in faith in mankind to see the danger .
the moral powers no more than the physical and mental , can bear overstraining .
''
dr. isaacs was so pleased with the quality of her biographical study of sara sullam that he considered submitting it to the century magazine or harper's but he decided that its jewish subject probably would not interest them and published it in the messenger , `` so our readers will be benefited instead '' .
and she wrote the libretto for an oratorio on the subject of judas maccabeus performed at the hanukkah festival which came in december .
another source of intellectual stimulus was opened to her at that time by the founding of johns hopkins university within walking distance of home .
in september '76 thomas huxley , darwin's famous disciple , came from england to speak in a crowded auditorium at the formal opening of the university ; ;
in the following year her father undertook to give a course in hebrew theology to johns hopkins students , and this brought to the szold house a group of bright young jews who had come to baltimore to study , and who enjoyed being fed and mothered by mamma and entertained by henrietta and rachel , who played and sang for them in the upstairs sitting room on sunday evenings .
adler , judge sulzberger's nephew , came to study assyriology .
joseph jastrow , the younger son of the distinguished rabbi , marcus jastrow , was a friendly , round-faced fellow with a little mustache , whose field was psychology , and who was also a punster and a jolly tease .
both these youths , who greatly admired henrietta , were somewhat younger than she , as were also the neighboring friedenwald boys , who were then studying medicine ; ;
besides , miss henrietta -- as she was generally known since she had put up her hair with a chignon in the back -- had little time to spare them from her teaching and writing ; ;
henrietta , however , was at that time engaged in a lengthy correspondence with joe's older and more serious brother , morris , who was just about her own age and whom she had got to know well during trips to philadelphia with papa , when he substituted for rabbi jastrow at rodeph shalom temple there during its rabbi's absence in europe .
unlike his younger brother , joe , he never presumed to address her more familiarly than as `` my dear friend '' , although he praised and envied the elegance and purity of her style .
one thing papa had not taught henrietta was how to handle a young man as high-spirited and opinionated as herself .
and in her forthright way , henrietta , who in her story of sara had indicated her own unwillingness `` to think of men as the privileged '' and `` women as submissive and yielding '' , felt obliged to defend vigorously any statement of hers to which morris jastrow took the slightest exception -- he objected to her stand on the corbin affair , as well as on the radical reforms of dr. wise of hebrew union college -- until once , in sheer desperation , he wrote that he had given up hope they would ever agree on anything .
1880s : `` little women ''
and , `` i do think that families are the most beautiful things in all the world '' , burst out jo some five hundred pages later in that popular story of the march family , which had first appeared when henrietta was eight ; ;
mr. march , like benjamin szold , was a clergyman , although of an indeterminate denomination ; ;
but the march girls had their counterparts in the szold girls .
neither was henrietta hoydenish like jo , who frankly wished she were a boy and had deliberately shortened her name , which , like henrietta's , was the feminine form of a boy's name .
each was her mother's assistant and confidante ; ;
bertha szold was more like meg , the eldest march girl , who `` learned that a woman's happiest kingdom is home , her highest honor the art of ruling it , not as a queen , but a wise wife and mother '' .
sadie , like beth march , suffered ill health -- got rheumatic fever and had to be careful of her heart -- but that never dampened her spirits .
she wrote gay plays about the girls for family entertainments , like `` oh , what fun ! !
sadie studied piano ; ;
and she recited `` hector's farewell to andromache '' most movingly , to the special delight of rabbi jastrow at his home in germantown near philadelphia , where the szold girls took turns visiting between the visits of the jastrow boys at the szolds' in baltimore .
for rachel , conceded to be the prettiest of the szold girls -- and she did make a pretty picture sitting in the grape-arbor strumming her guitar and singing in her silvery tones -- there was no particular march counterpart ; ;
the szolds , like the marches , enjoyed and loved living together , even in troubled times ; ;
this included mamma , jolly , generous , and pretty , with whom they all fell in love , just as papa had first fallen in love with her mamma before he chose her ; ;
and just as `` laurie '' lawrence was first attracted to bright jo march , who found him immature by her high standards , and then had to content himself with her younger sister amy , so joe jastrow , who had also been writing henrietta before he came to johns hopkins , had to content himself with her younger sister , pretty rachel .
this time he was making no mistake .
no wonder wright was enchanted -- no two better suited people ever met .
but the years that immediately followed were to be extraordinarily trying , both for wright and his montenegrin lady .
even so , many of the things that happened to wright and olgivanna seem inordinately severe .
reporters began to trail miriam everywhere , and to encourage her to make appalling statements about wright and his doings .
the distracted miriam would agree to a settlement through her legal representative , then change her mind and make another attack on wright as a person .
cloud made an interesting statement in parting from his client : `` i wanted to be a lawyer , and mrs. wright wanted me to be an avenging angel .
mrs. wright is without funds .
but every time i suggested this to her , mrs. wright turned it down and demanded that i go out and punish mr. wright .
miriam noel disregarded the free advice of her departing counselor , and appointed a heavy-faced young man named harold jackson to take his place .
and during the unhappy time , miriam often would charge that wright and olgivanna were misdemeanants against the public order of wisconsin .
this showed that common sense had not died out at the county and village level -- though why the unhappy and obviously unbalanced woman was not restrained remains a puzzle .
to get an idea of the embarrassment and chagrin that was heaped upon wright and olgivanna , we should bear in mind that the raids were sometimes led by miriam in person .
at this time miriam noel appeared , urging on constable henry pengally , whose name showed him to be a descendant of the welsh settlers in the neighborhood .
miriam was stopped at the taliesin gate , and william weston , now the estate foreman , came out to parley .
miriam now ordered pengally to break down the gate , but he said he really couldn't go that far .
miriam noel wright said , `` here i am at my own home , locked out so i must stand in the road '' ! !
when i take over taliesin , the first thing i'll do is fire you '' .
`` and i think you had better leave '' , replied miriam .
' i think you had better leave ' ! !
in the silence that followed , miriam walked close to mrs. cupply , who drew back a step on her side of the gate .
you are even uglier than mr. wright '' .
and it gave miriam noel a fund of energy like that of a person inspired to complete some great and universal work of art .
she also went to washington and appealed to senator george william norris of nebraska , the fighting liberal , from whose office a sympathetic but cautious harrumphing was heard .
under this kind of pressure , it is not surprising that wright would make sweeping statements to the newspapers .
first , wright said , he was choked by the smoke , which fortunately kept him from seeing the dreadful town .
`` that isn't a boulevard , it's a racetrack '' ! !
`` this is a horrible way to live '' , wright went on .
he was then asked for a solution of the difficulty , and began to talk trenchant sense , though private anguish showed through in the vehemence of his manner .
`` cut off every building at the seventh floor .
you don't need concentration .
you'll have trees again .
after all , that's the job of the architect -- to give the world a little joy '' .
the first news stories had it that this blaze was started by a bolt of lightning , as though miriam could call down fire from heaven like a prophet of the old testament .
later accounts blamed defective wiring for starting the fire ; ;
wright set his loss at $200,000 , a figure perhaps justified by the unique character of the house that had been ruined , and the faultless taste that had gone into the selection of the prints and other things that were destroyed .
amid a shortage of profitable work , the memory of albert johnson's $20,000 stood out in lonely grandeur -- the money had quickly melted away .
and the question before these meetings was , here is a man of international reputation and proved earning power ; ;
while this was under consideration , dauntless as ever wright set about the building of taliesin 3 .
years were to pass before these plans came off the paper , and wright was justified in thinking , as the projects failed , that much of what he had to show his country and the world would never be seen except by visitors to taliesin .
billy koch , who had once worked for wright as a chauffeur , gave a deposition for miriam's use that he had seen olgivanna living at taliesin .
nor was she moved by a letter from wright pointing out that if he was not `` compelled to spend money on useless lawyer's bills , useless hotel bills , and useless doctor's bills '' , he could more quickly provide miriam with a suitable home either in los angeles or paris , as she preferred .
his reply was , `` everything that has been printed derogatory to you , purporting to have come from me , was a betrayal , and nothing yet has been printed which i have sanctioned '' .
from her california headquarters , miriam fired back , `` i shall never divorce mr. wright , to permit him to marry olga milanoff '' .
the bank of wisconsin sent a representative to the judge's chambers in madison to give information on wright's ability to meet the terms .
miriam said that she must be assured that `` that other woman , olga , will not be in luxury while i am scraping along '' .
`` volstead laws , speed laws , divorce laws '' , he said , `` as they now stand , demoralize the individual , make liars and law breakers of us in one way or another , and tend to make our experiment in democracy absurd .
i realize , in taking this stand , just what it means to me and mine '' .
next day , word came that miriam was not going through with the divorce ; ;
his mentioning of japan and holland had been merely the expression of wishful thinking .
in a few weeks miriam made another sortie at taliesin , but was repulsed at the locked and guarded gates .
for pride's sake , i will not say that the coy and leering vade mecum of those verses insinuated itself into my soul .
but what you could not know , of course , was how smoothly the victorian fitzgerald was to lead into an american fitzgerald of my own vintage under whose banner we adolescents were to come , if not of age , then into a bright , taut semblance of it .
neither his appetites , his exacerbations , nor his despair were kin to yours .
but he was no man in the moon to me .
the flame was simply of a different kind .
one should not , of course , pluck the head off a flower and expect its perfume to linger on .
only what else was she singing but the old song of songs , that most ancient of tunes that nature plays with such unfailing response upon young nerves ? ?
perhaps the mere fact that by plucking on the nerves nature can awaken in the most ordinary of us , temporarily anyway , the sleeping poet , and in poets can discover their immortality , is the most remarkable of all the remarkable phenomena to which we can attest ? ?
one can take it as no more than another veil torn from the mystery of the soul .
one could see this chemical determinant as in itself a miracle .
but all this , i am well aware , is the bel canto of love , and although i have always liked to think that it was to the bel canto and to that alone that i listened , i know well enough that it was not .
there is another side of love , more nearly symbolized by the croak of the mating capercailzie , or better still perhaps by the mute antics of the slug .
i recoil from the very thought .
if one bullies , they say it is because one is afraid ; ;
and according to them , whatever one fancies one feels , what one feels in fact is the opposite .
) , i have never wanted to know what you knew of passion .
i can see us now .
we had stopped before a shop window to assess its autumnal display , when you suddenly turned to me , looking up from beneath one of your wrong hats , and with your nervous `` ahem '' ! !
if you had screamed right there in the street where we stood , i could not have felt more fear .
i fled , however , not from what might have been the natural fear of being unable to disguise from you that the things about my bridegroom -- in the sense you meant the word `` things '' -- which you had been galvanizing yourself to tell me as a painful part of your maternal duty were things which i had already insisted upon finding out for myself ( despite , i may now say , the unspeakable awkwardness of making the discovery on principle , yes , on principle , and in cold blood ) because i was resolved , as a modern woman , not to be a mollycoddle waiting for life but to seize life by the throat .
what i fled from was my fear of what , unwittingly , you might betray , without meaning to , about my father and yourself .
while my memory holds with relentless tenacity , as i cannot too often stress , to my wrongs , when it comes to my shames , it gestures and jokes and toys with chronology like a prestidigitator in the hope of distracting me from them .
cut it out '' .
it is not my intention in this narrative to picture myself as a helpless victim moored to the rock of experience and left to the buffetings of chance .
but the time came when i was no longer innocent and therefore no longer helpless .
however , i confess my hope that i will be innocent again , not with a pristine , accidental innocence , but rather with an innocence achieved by the slow cutting away of the flesh to reach the bone .
although it is constantly made to look foolish ( too simple to come in out of the rain , people say , who have found in the innocent an impediment ) , it does not mind looking foolish because it is not concerned with how it looks .
to innocence , a word given is a word that will be kept .
but when these expectations are once too often ground into the dust , innocence can falter , since its strength is according to the strength of him who possesses it .
but i insist upon believing that even when it is lost , it may , like paradise , be regained .
here , if anywhere , it is not wholly incontrovertible .
but to me innocence is far less tangible .
i knew this knowledge to be corrupting at the time i acquired it ; ;
you , i could swear to it , remained innocent in this sense until the end .
you had grown up at a time when the most distinguishing mark of a lady was the noli me tangere writ plain across her face .
before being daughter , wife , or mother , before being cultured ( a word now bereft both socially and politically of the sheen you children of frontiersmen bestowed on it ) , before being sorry for the poor , progressive about public health , and prettily if somewhat imprecisely humanitarian , indeed first and foremost , you were a lady .
a lady , you made clear to me both by precept and example , never raised her voice or slumped in her chair , never failed in social tact ( in heaven , for instance , would not mention st. john the baptist's head ) , never pouted or withdrew or scandalized in company , never reminded others of her physical presence by unseemly sound or gesture , never indulged in public scenes or private confidences , never spoke of money save in terms of alleviating suffering , never gossiped or maligned , never stressed but always minimized the hopelessness of anything from sin to death itself .
the songs sandburg sang often reminded listeners of songs of a kindred character they knew entirely or in fragments .
in due time sandburg was a walking thesaurus of american folk music .
he rummaged , found composers and arrangers , collaborated on the main design and outline of harmonization with musicians , ballad singers , and musicologists .
each song or ditty was prefaced by an author's note which indicated the origin and meaning of the song as well as special interest the song had , musical arrangement , and most of the chorus and verses .
as sandburg said at the time : `` it is as ancient as the medieval european ballads brought to the appalachian mountains , it is as modern as skyscrapers , the volstead act , and the latest oil well gusher '' .
sandburg is in constant demand as an entertainer .
first , carl respects his audience and prepares his speeches carefully .
he has his own system of shorthand , devised by abbreviations : `` humility '' will be `` humly '' , `` with '' will be `` w '' , and `` that '' will be `` tt '' .
it is a mistake , however , to imagine that sandburg uses the guitar as a prop .
at age seventy-four , he became what he shyly terms a `` pupil '' of andres segovia , the great guitarist of the western world .
one needs high talent .
`` his fingers labor heavily on the strings and he asked for my help in disciplining them .
there has long existed a brotherly affection between us , thus i accepted him as my pupil .
to play the guitar as he aspires will devour his three-fold energy as a historian , a poet and a singer .
i am certain that carl sandburg will not fall into the same sad philosophy .
the public's identification of carl sandburg and the guitar is no happenstance .
he is proud of having segovia for a friend and dedicated a poem to him titled `` the guitar '' .
`` a portable companion always ready to go where you go -- a small friend weighing less than a freshborn infant -- to be shared with few or many -- just two of you in sweet meditation '' .
carl hadn't brought his along .
`` preferably '' , said carl , `` one battered and worn , such as might be found in a pawnshop '' .
`` mr. miller was in the shop '' , the herald tribune story related , `` but was reluctant to have anybody's picture taken inside , because his business was too ' confidential ' for pictures .
well you can pose inside .
' kalamazoo guitars ' , he said , ' used by radio hillbilly singers .
while the picture was taken , mr. miller's disposition to be generous to mr. sandburg increased to the point where he advised , ' i won't even charge you the one dollar rental fee ' '' .
when someone in the audience rose and asked how does it feel to be a celebrity , carl said , `` a celebrity is a fellow who eats celery with celerity '' .
lloyd lewis wrote that when he first knew carl in 1916 , sandburg was making $27.50 a week writing features for the day book and eating sparse luncheons in one-arm restaurants .
when fame came it changed sandburg only slightly .
carl thought the question over slowly and answered : `` i know a starving man who is fed never remembers all the pangs of his starvation , i know that '' .
that was all he had to say .
it comes and goes .
there never were two fames alike .
another is a bubble of a bauble '' .
the impression you get from carl sandburg's home is one of laughter and happiness ; ;
carl has been married to paula for fifty-three years , and he has not made a single major decision without careful consideration and thorough discussion with his wife .
she has shared her husband's greatness , but only within the confines of their home ; ;
mrs. sandburg received a phi beta kappa key from the university of chicago and she was busy writing and teaching when she met sandburg .
she has rarely been photographed with him and , except for carl's seventy-fifth anniversary celebration in chicago in 1953 , she has not attended the dozens of banquets , functions , public appearances , and dinners honoring him -- all of this upon her insistence .
the only way to describe paula sandburg is to say she is beautiful in a grecian sense .
she has small , broad , capable hands and an enormous energy .
she designed and supervised the building of the harbert , michigan , house , most of which was constructed by one local carpenter who carried the heavy beams singly upon his shoulder .
when erosion threatened the foundation of their home in harbert , paula sandburg planted grapevines and arranged the snow fences which helped hold the sands away .
her mother called her paus'l , a luxemburg endearment meaning `` pussycat '' .
but neither was lilian her baptismal name .
`` my mother read a book right after i was born and there was a lilian in the book she loved and i became lilian -- and eventually i became paula '' .
this family of luxemburg immigrants , in fact , produced two exceptional children .
( two years ago the photography editor of vogue magazine titled his article about steichen , `` the world's greatest photographer '' .
by the time lilian had been graduated from public school , her parents were doing quite well .
but her father was not enthusiastic about sending young paula to high school .
the parents compromised , however , on a convent school and paula went to ursuline academy in london , ontario .
she knelt out of reverence for having read the meditations of st. augustine .
paula was saddened about what was happening to little girls and vowed to kneel no more in chapel .
if there was ever a thought in her mind she might devote her life to religion , it was now dispelled .
she passed the entrance examinations to the university of illinois , but during the year at urbana felt more important events transpired at the university of chicago .
at the university of chicago she studied whitman and shelley , and became a socialist .
she once gave a german recitation before a convention of german-language teachers in milwaukee .
carl was still charles a. sandburg .
victor berger , the panjandrum of wisconsin socialism and member of congress , had asked paula steichen to translate some of his german editorials into english .
she left the next day for her teaching job at princeton , illinois .
) by the time the streetcar pulled away , he had fallen in love with paula .
paula says that even though carl's letters usually began , `` dear miss steichen '' , there was an understanding from the beginning that they would become husband and wife .
`` dear miss steichen : it is a very good letter you send me -- softens the intensity of this guerilla warfare i am carrying on up here .
the united states is always ready to participate with the soviet union in serious discussion of these or any other subjects that may lead to peace with justice .
by the same token , we reject any soviet attempt to impose its system on us or other peoples by force or subversion .
not for a moment do we forget that our own fate is firmly fastened to that of these countries ; ;
we and our friends are , of course , concerned with self-defense .
these peoples , desperately hoping to lift themselves to decent levels of living must not , by our neglect , be forced to seek help from , and finally become virtual satellites of , those who proclaim their hostility to freedom .
this is a problem to be solved not by america alone , but also by every nation cherishing the same ideals and in position to provide help .
the international economy of 1960 is markedly different from that of the early postwar years .
to remain secure and prosperous themselves , wealthy nations must extend the kind of co-operation to the less fortunate members that will inspire hope , confidence , and progress .
but the enmities it will incur , the isolation into which it will descend , and the internal moral and spiritual softness that will be engendered , will , in the long term , bring it to economic and political disaster .
her miraculous progress in material achievements flows from other qualities far more worthy and substantial : adherence to principles and methods consonant with our religious philosophy ; ;
the readiness to sacrifice for worthwhile causes ; ;
the intellectual honesty and capacity to recognize the true path of her own best interests .
i believe that the industrial countries are ready to participate actively in supplementing the efforts of the developing nations to achieve progress .
our surplus from foreign business transactions has in recent years fallen substantially short of the expenditures we make abroad to maintain our military establishments overseas , to finance private investment , and to provide assistance to the less developed nations .
continuing deficits of anything like this magnitude would , over time , impair our own economic growth and check the forward progress of the free world .
further , we must induce all industrialized nations of the free world to work together to help lift the scourge of poverty from less fortunate .
new nations , and others struggling with the problems of development , will progress only -- regardless of any outside help -- if they demonstrate faith in their own destiny and use their own resources to fulfill it .
there is no easy and quick way to follow from the oxcart to the jet plane .
respecting their need , one of the major focal points of our concern is the south-asian region .
i cannot express to you the depth of my conviction that , in our own and free world interest , we must co-operate with others to help these people achieve their legitimate ambitions , as expressed in their different multi-year plans .
i shall continue to urge the american people , in the interests of their own security , prosperity and peace , to make sure that their own part of this great project be amply and cheerfully supported .
other countries , some of which i visited last month , have similar needs .
during the past year i have discussed this matter with the leaders of several western nations .
the goal is to enlist all available economic resources in the industrialized free world , especially private investment capital .
no more startling contrast to a system of sullen satellites could be imagined .
otherwise , the outlook could be dark indeed .
as a nation we can successfully pursue these objectives only from a position of broadly based strength .
until tangible and mutually enforceable arms reduction measures are worked out we will not weaken the means of defending our institutions .
it is my studied conviction that no nation will ever risk general war against us unless we should become so foolish as to neglect the defense forces we now so powerfully support .
but i once again assure all peoples and all nations that the united states , except in defense , will never turn loose this destructive power .
in fourteen recent test launchings , at ranges of five thousand miles , atlas has been striking on an average within two miles of the target .
incidentally , there was an atlas firing last night .
such performance is a great tribute to american scientists and engineers , who in the past five years have had to telescope time and technology to develop these long-range ballistic missiles , where america had none before .
these remarkable ships and weapons , ranging the oceans , will be capable of accurate fire on targets virtually anywhere on earth .
the continuing modernization of these forces is a costly but necessary process .
the deployment of a portion of these forces beyond our shores , on land and sea , is persuasive demonstration of our determination to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our allies for collective security .
this is necessary for a sounder collective defense system .
we note that , first , america has already made great contributions in the past two years to the world's fund of knowledge of astrophysics and space science .
but they are important foundation stones for more extensive exploration of outer space for the ultimate benefit of all mankind .
i am assured by experts that the thrust of our present missiles is fully adequate for defense requirements .
fourth , in the meantime , it is necessary to remember that we have only begun to probe the environment immediately surrounding the earth .
satellite relay stations to facilitate and extend communications over the globe ; ;
and for perfecting instruments to collect and transmit the data we seek .
i believe it deficient in certain particulars .
the accomplishment of the many tasks i have alluded to requires the continuous strengthening of the spiritual , intellectual , and economic sinews of american life .
we must be ever alert that freedom does not wither through the careless amassing of restrictive controls or the lack of courage to deal boldly with the issues of the day .
today our surging strength is apparent to everyone .
yet we continue to be afflicted by nagging disorders .
the need to protect the public interest in situations of prolonged labor-management stalemate ; ;
the continuing threat of inflation , together with the persisting tendency toward fiscal irresponsibility ; ;
the group , upon the issuance of its first press release on december 21 , 1957 , designated itself a `` committee of investigation '' .
it heard bang-jensen twice and his lawyer , adolf a. berle , jr. , once .
it also implied that paul bang-jensen had been irresponsible .
here , he openly attacked bang-jensen and referred to his `` aberrant conduct '' .
on january 24 paul bang-jensen , accompanied by adolf berle , was met by dragoslav protitch and colonel frank begley , former police chief of farmington , conn. , and now head of u.n. special police .
there , begley lit a fire in a wire basket , and bang-jensen dropped four sealed envelopes into the flames .
the method of destroying the evidence embarrassed paul bang-jensen .
he was right , and peter marshall could not help but recall andrew cordier's words on the subject , `` well , it seemed as good a place as any to do the job '' .
hammarskjold's supposed desire to seek outside legal advice in the guise of ernest gross is illusion , at best .
but by the time the papers were finally disposed of , the group had informed the world of its purpose , its recommendations , and its belief that paul bang-jensen was not of sound mind .
the contents of this 195-page document would become known to many before it would become known to the man it was written about .
i had known him for some years , when i was a delegate and before , and this manner had never been his '' .
the result was the `` gross report '' , prepared by gross , as chairman , with the assistance of two u.n. under secretaries , constantin stavropoulos and philippe de seynes .
he had always done well .
''
`` you know '' , the lawyer said , `` it's difficult to talk like this about a man who can't answer back '' .
marshall sat in one of the several leather chairs .
`` mr. gross , your report says that ' our function is investigative and advisory and does not in any way derogate from or prejudice mr. bang-jensen's rights as a staff member .
gross swung his swivel chair .
i don't consider that he was prejudged .
`` we have nothing to hide under a bushel .
`` what did you think about his mental state '' ? ?
`` don't forget , here was a man who had been accusing his colleagues for almost a year of willfully attempting to present an incorrect report .
`` this is a distressing thing .
no organization can carry on like that .
`` what i'd like you to comment on is the criticism leveled at your committee '' .
`` for instance , regarding the fact that the gross committee issued two interim announcements to the press during its investigation .
in his own words , bang-jensen ' took it for granted that the group would report to the secretary general privately and not in public .
gross bristled .
`` listen '' , he said .
but you know bang-jensen launched an active campaign against us in the press .
you can find it in the papers '' .
gross shot another look at marshall .
don't forget the foreign press '' .
this cited bang-jensen's ' aberrant conduct ' '' .
as far as i'm concerned , it was a separate matter from the general committee study of bang-jensen's conduct .
`` how about your press conference three days later -- what was the reason for that ? ?
he claimed you made other slanderous allegations '' .
`` the entire object of the press conference was to clarify the problem of the list , since many in the press were querying the u.n. about it .
i don't know .
`` it was foolish of him to keep them , whatever they were .
of course the matter caught the public's attention .
hammarskjold didn't like the way it was carried out .
hammarskjold believes the u.n. is an organization that settles matters in a procedural way .
peter marshall reflected .
`` mr. gross , concerning the formation of your committee , there's the fact that you have been a legal adviser to the u.n. in the past ; ;
could you comment on that '' ? ?
mr. stavropoulos is the u.n. legal chief and a very good man , but he is not fully versed on some technical points of american law '' .
marshall asked .
gross answered .
even after the incident between bang-jensen and shann in the delegates' lounge and this was not the way the chicago tribune presented it '' .
one was an article on the u.n. by alice widener from the cincinnati enquirer .
gross pointed to the manley story .
he probably didn't mean to write it this way , or maybe he did .
that implies that shann was on the enemy side .
how it's phrased there -- the word violent .
' i've found errors and i want you to look them over .
but it wasn't a violent discussion .
( shann's own report , peter marshall reflected , describes the encounter as `` immoderate '' .
)
`` shann was responsible for the report .
it was a good report , he did all he could to make it a good report .
don't forget , i am an old member of the club , a former delegate .
`` you know , this hits in many areas .
don't forget , the u.n. did no more than the united states did .
chapter 22
it said in part :
ernest gross replied the next day , putting the suspended diplomat's fears to rest .
the group conducting the review is not holding formal hearings .
''
there , ernest gross further assured him :
the only rules which i think we shall follow will be those of common sense , justice , and fairness '' .
marshall pondered the reason for this , and pondered too the replacement of one member of the three-man group .
fortunately the hole was found at last and plugged .
the sickness was gone and , after all , the two young couples were on their honeymoon .
in spite of pickering dodge's explicit instructions regarding variation of meals , the food did not seem the same as at home .
at last they concluded that the heavy , full feeling in their stomachs was due to lack of exercise .
skipping was the alternative .
finally , tiring of so monotonous a form of exercise , they decided to dance instead .
the weather turned warmer and with it came better appetites , although harriet was still a little off-color .
by now she was sure she was going to have a baby , deciding it would be born in india or burma that november .
the crew of the caravan never failed to amaze ann , who during her stay in salem must frequently have overheard strong sailorly language .
this is very uncommon '' .
even the first wave of homesickness had passed , although there were moments when captain heard pointed out on his compass the direction of bradford that she felt a little twinge at her heart .
on sundays , with the permission of captain heard , who usually attended with two of his officers , services were held in the double cabin .
captain heard did not communicate with any strange vessels because of the possibility of war between the united states and britain .
when may came the caravan had already crossed the equator .
the weather had turned wet and cold .
`` i care not how soon we reach calcutta , and are placed in a still room , with a bowl of milk and a loaf of indian bread .
i have been so weary of the excessive rocking of the vessel , and the almost intolerable smell after the rain , that i have done little more than lounge on the bed for several days .
while studying at the seminary in andover , adoniram had been working on a new testament translation from the original greek .
there was one particular word that troubled his conscience .
born a congregationalist , he had been baptized as a tiny baby in the usual manner by having a few drops of water sprinkled on his head , yet nowhere in the whole of the new testament could he find a description of anybody being baptized by sprinkling .
even christ was baptized by this method .
as was only natural he confided his searchings to ann , conceding ruefully that it certainly looked as if their own congregationalists were wrong and the baptists right .
by this time she had learned that it was futile to argue with her young husband , yet the uncomfortable fact remained : the american congregationalists were sending them as missionaries to the far east and paying their salaries .
baptists and congregationalists in new england were on friendly terms .
`` if you become a baptist , i will not '' , ann informed her husband , but sweeping her threat aside adoniram continued to search for an answer to the personal dilemma in which he found himself .
even harriet could boldly write , `` i know not how it is ; ;
see the lightning flash ; ;
and yet remain unmoved '' .
land was near , and on june 12 , one hundred and fourteen days after leaving america , they actually saw , twenty miles away , the coast of orissa .
sometimes ships waited for days for such a man , but captain heard was lucky .
a little man with a `` a dark copper color '' skin , he was wearing `` calico trousers and a white cotton short gown '' .
`` he looks as feminine as you can imagine '' , she decided .
all day long the caravan slowly made her way through the difficult passages .
he swore so loudly at the top of his voice , that she didn't get any sleep all the next night .
relieved of the major part of his responsibility for the safety of the ship , the pilot's oaths became fewer .
ann was entranced with the view , as were her husband and friends .
out came the journal and in it went ann's own description of the scene :
they are very small , and in the form of haystacks , without either chimney or windows .
the grass and fields of rice are perfectly green , and herds of cattle are everywhere feeding on the banks of the river , and the natives are scattered about differently employed .
the pagodas we have passed are much larger than the houses '' .
where were the hardships she had expected ? ?
with childlike innocence she wrote of the indians as `` walking with fruit and umbrellas in their hands , with the tawny children around them .
the indians who came aboard ship to collect the mail also interested her greatly , even if she was suitably shocked , according to the customs of the society in which she had been reared , to find them `` naked , except a piece of cotton cloth wrapped around their middle '' .
founded august 24 , 1690 by job charnock of the east india company , and commonly called `` the city of palaces '' , it seemed a vast and elegant place to ann hasseltine judson .
the noise stunned her .
harriet's mouth watered with anticipation when after months of dreaming she sat down at last to her much-craved milk and fresh bread .
cautiously she sampled her first pineapple and another fruit whose taste she likened to that of `` a rich pear '' .
six
on the way they tried to discover all they could about burma , and they were disturbed to find that michael symes's book had not presented an altogether true picture .
they were in fact quietly laughing at him , for their king wished to have nothing to do with the western world .
although after much trouble he did manage to get it back , he discovered there was no trade to be had .
a year later another salem ship returned from burma with a cargo of gum lacquer which nobody wanted to buy .
the burmese appeared to have little knowledge of british power or any idea of trade .
cruel burmese governors could , on the slightest whim , take a man's life .
unspeakable tortures or even execution might well be their fate .
somewhat daunted , the two american missionaries reached the police station where they were questioned by a most unfriendly clerk .
they explained that they desired only to stop in india until a ship traveling on to burma could be found .
he is answered by a confused , honest englishman .
as for the author of the englishman , mrs. manley sarcastically deplores that the sole defense of the protestant cause should be left to `` ridpath , dick steele , and their associates , with the apostles of young man's coffee-house '' .
on december 21 , the day that the irish house of commons petitioned for removal of sir constantine phipps , their tory lord chancellor , molesworth reportedly made this remark on the defense of phipps by convocation : `` they that have turned the world upside down , are come hither also '' .
steele , who had earlier praised molesworth in tatler no. 189 , now defended him in englishman no. 46 , depicting his removal as a setback to the constitution .
swift , in the dublin edition of a preface to the bishop of sarum's introduction , indicated his feelings by including molesworth , along with toland , tindal , and collins , in the group of those who , like burnet , are engaged in attacking all convocations of the clergy .
a month later , in the publick spirit of the whigs , he used steele's defense of molesworth as evidence of his disrespect for the clergy , calling steele's position an affront to the `` whole convocation of ireland '' .
in the early months of 1714 , the battle between swift and steele over the issue of the succession entered its major phase .
in answer to the crisis , swift produced the publick spirit of the whigs , his most extensive and bitter attack on his old friend .
despite his defense of himself in the final paper of the englishman and in his speech before the house , their efforts were successful .
of all the whig tracts written in support of the succession , the crisis is perhaps the most significant .
hanoverian agents assisted in promoting circulation , said to have reached 40,000 , and if one may judge by the reaction of swift and other government writers , the work must have had considerable impact .
to this end , the first and longest section of the tract cites all the laws enacted since the revolution to defend england against the `` arbitrary power of a popish prince '' .
but his principal theme is that the intrigues of the tories , `` our popish or jacobite party '' , pose an immediate threat to church and state .
treasonable books striking at the hanoverian succession , he complains , are allowed to pass unnoticed .
in his effort to stir the public from its lethargy , steele goes so far as to list catholic atrocities of the sort to be expected in the event of a stuart restoration , and , with rousing rhetoric , he asserts that the only preservation from these `` terrours '' is to be found in the laws he has so tediously cited .
steele apparently professed his sentiments in this book too openly and honestly for his own good , since the government was soon to use it as evidence against him in his trial before the house .
for example , no. 56 printed the patent giving the electoral prince the title of duke of cambridge .
at the order of the dowager electress , the hanoverian agents , supported by the whig leaders , demanded that a writ of summons be issued which would call the duke to england to sit in parliament , thus further insuring the succession by establishing a hanoverian prince in england before the queen's death .
oxford , realizing that the law required the issuance of the writ , took the opposite view , for which the queen never forgave him .
steele in this paper is indicating his sympathy for such a plan .
defoe then commented , `` if they could draw that young gentleman into their measures they would show themselves quickly , for they are not asham'd to say they want only a head to make a beginning '' .
steele's purpose is to present a general defense of his political writing and a resume of the themes which had occupied him in the englishman ; ;
thus he complains , with considerable justice , that the tory writers have resorted to libel instead of answering his arguments .
as notable examples of this abuse , he quotes passages from the examiner , `` that destroyer of all things '' , and the character of richard steele , which he here attributes to swift .
his point is simply that the tories have showered him with personal satire , despite the fact that as a private subject he has a right to speak on political matters without affronting the prerogative of the sovereign .
the final section of this pamphlet is of special interest in a consideration of steele's relations with swift .
steele first answers briefly the charges which his `` dear old friend '' has made about his pamphlet on dunkirk and his crisis .
by this term he means to ridicule their professions of acting in the interest of the church despite their own education and manner of life -- a gibe , in other words , at the `` presbyterianism '' in harley's family and at bolingbroke's reputed impiety .
this is the principal point made in this final section of englishman no. 57 , and it caps steele's efforts in his other writing of these months to counteract the notion of the tories as a `` church party '' supported by the body of the clergy .
he explains that there are sometimes honorable courtiers , but that too often a man who succeeds at court does not hesitate to sacrifice his sovereign and nation to his own avarice and ambition .
if `` jack the courtier '' is really to be taken as swift , the following remark is obviously steele's comment on swift's change of parties and its effect on their friendship : `` i assure you , dear jack , when i first found out such an allay in you , as makes you of so malleable a constitution , that you may be worked into any form an artificer pleases , i foresaw i should not enjoy your favour much longer '' .
the last point was soon to be included in the `` seditious '' remarks used against him in parliament .
he reviews steele's entrance into politics and finds that his present difficulties are due to his habit of attributing to his own abilities and talents achievements which more properly should be credited to the indulgence of his friends .
this was the form in which their private feud most often appeared in the tory press , especially the examiner .
among whom , his party have indeed more friends than i could wish '' .
by now he was undergoing a fresh torrent of abuse from tory papers and pamphlets , and action was being taken to effect his punishment by expulsion from parliament .
it is filled with the usual personal abuse of steele , especially of his physical appearance ; ;
when harold arlen returned to california in the winter of 1944 , it was to take up again a collaboration with johnny mercer , begun some years before .
the twist lay in using bing crosby's voice on the sound track while leading man eddie bracken mouthed the words .
though they would produce some very memorable and lasting songs , arlen and mercer were not given strong material to work on .
early in 1941 they were assigned to a script titled hot nocturne .
johnny mercer practically grew up with the sound of jazz and the blues in his ears .
his father , george a. mercer , was descended from an honored southern family that could trace its ancestry back to one hugh mercer , who had emigrated from scotland in 1747 .
his second wife , lillian , was the mother of john h. mercer .
one day he followed the irish jasper greens , the town band , to a picnic and spent the entire day listening , while his family spent the day looking .
but one afternoon mrs. mercer met her ; ;
the mother inquired , `` where's johnny , and why did you leave him '' ? ?
but mrs. mercer demanded more .
with her son evidencing so strong a musical bent his mother could do little else but get him started on the study of music -- though she waited until he was ten -- beginning with the piano and following that with the trumpet .
still , he did like music making and even sang in the chapel choir of the woodberry forest school , near orange , virginia , where he sounded fine but did not matriculate too well .
if his scholarship and formal musicianship were not all they might have been , mercer demonstrated at an early age that he was gifted with a remarkable ear for rhythm and dialect .
such speech differences made him acutely aware of the richness and expressivness of language .
it generally took well into the autumn for the firm to recover from the summer's help .
there they stayed '' .
it is , however , a disarming disguise , or perhaps a shield , for not only has mercer proved himself to be one of the few great lyricists over the years , but also one who can function remarkably under pressure .
he has also an extraordinary conscience .
he died before he could completely pay off his debts .
the check had been mailed from chicago , the envelope bore no return address , and the check was not signed .
but mercer's explanation was simple : `` i made out the check and carried it around a few days unsigned -- in case i lost it '' .
when the family business failed , mercer left school and on his mother's urging -- for she hoped that he would become an actor -- he joined a local little theater group .
he had talked one other member of the group to stay with him , but that friend had tired of not eating regularly and returned to savannah .
`` the place had no sink or washbasin , only a bathtub '' , his mother discovered when she visited him .
a story , no doubt apocryphal , for mercer himself denies it , has him sporting a monacle in those village days .
one day in a bar , so the legend goes , someone put a beer stein with too much force on the monacle and broke it .
mercer is supposed to have refused it with , `` anyone who wears a square monacle must be affected '' ! !
he just happened not to need any actor at the moment , however .
this 1930 edition also had songs in it by vernon duke and ira gershwin , by e. y. harburg and duke , and by harry myers .
the mercers took up residence in brooklyn , and mercer found a regular job in wall street `` misplacing stocks and bonds '' .
while with the whiteman band mercer met jerry arlen .
the lyric , mercer remembers , was tailored to fit the unusual melody .
after leaving whiteman , mercer joined the benny goodman band as a vocalist .
the countrywide success of `` lazybones '' and `` and the angels sing '' could only lead to hollywood , where , besides harold arlen , mercer collaborated with harry warren , jimmy van heusen , richard whiting , walter donaldson , jerome kern , and arthur schwartz .
he may be the only song writer ever to have collaborated with a secretary of the u. s. treasury ; ;
when johnny mercer and harold arlen began their collaboration in 1940 , mercer , like arlen , had several substantial film songs to his credit , among them `` hooray for hollywood '' , `` ride , tenderfoot , ride '' , `` have you got any castles , baby ? ?
with harry warren he did `` the girl friend of the whirling dervish '' , `` jeepers creepers '' , and `` you must have been a beautiful baby '' .
though versatile and capable of turning out a ballad lyric with the best of them , mercer's forte is a highly polished quasi-folk wit .
there were times that he worked with both lyricists simultaneously .
after we got a script and the spots for the songs were blocked out , we'd get together for an hour or so every day .
he has a wonderfully retentive memory .
i wouldn't hear from him for a couple of weeks , then he'd come around with the completed lyric '' .
`` some guys bothered me '' , mercer has said .
he is probably our most original composer ; ;
while arlen and mercer collaborated on hot nocturne , mercer worked also with arthur schwartz on another film , navy blues .
besides doing a single song , `` when the sun comes out '' , they worked on the ambitious american-negro suite , for voices and piano , as well as songs for films .
the work had its beginning in 1938 with an eight-bar musical strain to which koehler set the words `` there'll be no more work ; ;
this grew into the song `` big time comin' '' .
the negro composer hall johnson studied the american-negro suite and said of it , `` of all the many songs written by white composers and employing what claims to be a negroid idiom in both words and music , these six songs by harold arlen and ted koehler easily stand far out above the rest .
i feel obliged to describe this cubbyhole .
it was here that the terror-stricken dennis moon played an unrehearsed role during the children's party .
that unused room was large enough for -- well , say an elephant could get into it and , as a matter of fact , an elephant did .
it so happened that sports writer arthur robinson got out of the hospital that morning after promising his doctor that he be back in an hour or two to continue his convalescence .
he was ghost writer for babe ruth , whose main talent for literary composition was the signing of his autograph .
he arrived on crutches at the newspaper club with one of his great pals , oliver herford , artist , author , and foe of stupidity .
he seemed timid ( at first , ) wore nose glasses from which a black ribbon dangled , and was no bigger than a jockey .
in the jakes , after robbie and his crutches were properly stowed , mr. herford went to the adjoining facility .
without any regard for rest-room protocol , the hulking stranger almost knocked herford off his pins .
he waited a long time .
the unrelieved stranger eventually turned away from the place of his -- shall we dare say his waterloo ? ?
mr. herford touched the fat man's arm .
may i say that you have just demonstrated the truth of an old proverb -- the younger pliny's , if memory serves me -- which , translated freely from the archaic latin , says , ' the more haste , the less peed ' '' .
united states senator royal s. copeland was wearing the robes of santa claus and a great white beard ; ;
i was in charge of the arrangements -- which were soon enough disarranged .
when , in my enthusiasm , i proposed the party , my city editor ( who disliked the club and many of its members ) tried to block my participation in the gala event .
city editor victor watson of the new york american was a man of brooding suspicions and mysterious shifts of mood .
the staff saw in him the qualities of a don cossack , hence , as mentioned before , his nickname `` the hetman '' .
indeed , he looked more like a well-fleshed lay brother of the hospice of st. bernard .
he had a purring voice and poker player's immobility of features which somehow conveyed the feeling that he knew where all the bodies were buried .
he had worked in the newspaper business since he was nineteen years old , always for the hearst service .
it was said that the hetman plotted to take over the entire hearst newspaper empire one day by means of various coups : the destruction of editors who tried to halt his course , the unfrocking of publishers whose mistakes of judgment might be magnified in secret reports to mr. hearst .
among the outstanding members of the hearst cabinet whom he successfully opposed for a time were the great arthur brisbane , bradford merrill , s.s. carvalho , and colonel van hamm .
runyon , for his part , had a contemptuous regard for mr. watson .
arthur `` bugs '' baer wrote to me just recently , `` vic wanted to die in harness , with his head towards the wagon .
watson told me that his brother always sent roses to his mother , blossoms bought with vic's allowance to him .
why ' '' ? ?
then he would get to his feet , as though rising in honor of his own remarkable powers , and say almost invariably , `` gentlemen , this is an amazing story ! !
some of the hetman's `` ideas '' were dream-ridden , vaguely imparted , and at times preposterous .
he said that his information was so secret that he would not be able to confide in me the origin of his pipeline tip .
it's bigger than the armistice '' .
then i spent the next two days at the baseball park and at jack doyle's pool parlors .
he was busy , he said , in having someone submit to a monkey-gland operation .
i shall tell of it later on .
most of my stories were obtained by simply seeking out the person who could give me the facts , and not as a rule by playing clever tricks .
i explained my state of mind to artist winsor mccay and to `` bugs '' baer .
we fashioned beards , put them on , and reported to the hetman at the city desk .
mr. mccay had on a sort of emperor maximilian beard and mustache .
this , together with a derby hat and horn-rim eyeglasses , gave me the appearance of a russian nihilist .
`` where to , sir '' ? ?
just then a reporter telephoned in from the bronx to give the rewrite desk an account of a murder .
while i was sitting at one of the rewrite telephones with my derby and my great beard , arthur brisbane whizzed in with some editorial copy in his hand .
i thought it expedient to take off my derby , my glasses , and the beard ; ;
i managed to do this by the time the great a.b. returned to the place where he last had seen the fierce nihilist .
then he wrinkled his huge brow and went slowly out of the room .
he had been `` seeing things '' .
he campaigned successfully for the riddance of `` death avenue '' and also brought about the ending of pollution of metropolitan beaches by sewage .
in the conduct of these and many other campaigns , the hetman proved to be a much abler journalist than his critics allowed .
alone , rejected on every hand , divorced , and in financial trouble , he leaped from an eleventh-floor window of the abbey hotel in 1937 .
that word was withheld when the need of it seemed the measure of his despair .
i cannot ''
that is , until i became an editor , hence , in his eyes , a rival .
during the next years he gave me the second of the five contracts i would sign with the hearst service .
i would like to believe that my ability warranted this advancement .
i remember one day when mr. hearst ( and i never knew why he liked me , either ) sent the hetman a telegram : `` please find some more reporters like that young man from denver '' .
the colonel grunted , then made a remark which might be construed in either of two ways .
we already have the only one of its kind '' .
sergeant mike donaldson , congressional medal of honor soldier , was one of them .
i used to go with watson to call on the eminent neurologist at his apartment , to sit among the doctor's excellent collection of statues , paintings , and books and drink oriental coffee while watson seemed to thaw out and become almost affable .
i cannot remember dr. gregory's reply , if , indeed , he made one .
sometimes , mrs. coolidge would close herself in the green suite on the second floor , and play the piano she had brought to the white house .
all the rest of the days in the white house would be shadowed by the tragic loss , even though the president tried harder than ever to make his little dry jokes and to tease the people around him .
backstairs , the maids cried a little over that , and the standing invitation was not mentioned to mrs. coolidge .
he would bring her boxes of candy and other presents to coax a smile to her lips .
dresses were short in the days of mrs. coolidge , and spanish shawls were thrown over them .
one shawl was so tremendous that she could not wear it , so she draped it over the banister on the second floor , and it hung over the stairway .
mrs. coolidge spent more time in her bedroom among her doll collection .
at night , when mama would turn back the covers , she would have to take all the dolls off the bed and place them elsewhere for the night .
among the dolls was one that meant very much to the first lady , who would pick it up and look at it often .
an accompanying sympathetic letter explained that inside the envelope was a name for mrs. coolidge's first granddaughter .
the name inside the envelope was `` cynthia '' .
john was away at school most of the time .
now and then , the president would call for `` little jack , master of the hounds '' , which was his nickname for a messenger who had worked in the white house since teddy roosevelt's administration , and discuss the welfare of some one of the animals .
one white house dog was immortalized in a painting .
to get him to pose , mrs. coolidge would feed him candy , so he enjoyed the portrait sessions as well as she did .
it is not the same dress as the one on her manikin in the smithsonian .
this is not true .
there is a long train flowing from the shoulders .
i still have the dress , and i hope to give it to the smithsonian institution as a memento , or , as i more fondly hope , to present it to a museum containing articles showing the daily lives of the presidents -- if i can get it organized .
the last two were a red and a black chow .
he showed them what to do , and taught them how to keep the maids around the white house in a state of terror .
mama didn't know what to do -- whether to tell on rob roy or not -- since she had the ear of mrs. coolidge more than the other maids .
every day , when the president took his nap , rob roy would stretch out on the window seat near him , like a perfect gentleman , and stare thoughtfully out the window , or he would take a little nap himself .
then he would bark to let everyone know the coast was clear .
rob roy was self-appointed to accompany the president to his office every morning .
at dinner , lunch , or breakfast , the president would call out , `` supper '' ! !
all the dogs would dash to get on the elevator with the president and go to the dining room .
when prudence and blackberry were too young to be trusted in the dining room , they were tied to the radiator with their leashes , and they would cry .
finally , mama did mention to mrs. coolidge that she felt sorry for the little dogs , and then mrs. coolidge decided to leave the radio on for them while she was gone , even though her husband disapproved of the waste of electricity .
mrs. coolidge chose mama in her place .
every first family seems to have one couple upon whom it relies for true friendship .
they seemed to be at the white house half the time .
if the stearns were not there , grace would be omitted .
the word was that this too was part of an economy move on his part .
so the president would make a hearty breakfast official by inviting government officials to attend .
mama said that if presidents were supposed to be colorful , mr. coolidge certainly made a good president .
the favorite guest of the house , as far as the staff was concerned , was mr. wrigley , the chewing gum king .
you can imagine that he got pretty good service .
he had been a friend of the hardings , and continued to be invited by the coolidges .
she was not an overnight guest in the white house , but mr. ike hoover , the chief usher , had mama check her fur coat when she came in , and take care of her needs .
mama was very patriotic , and one of the duties she was proudest of was repairing the edges of the flag that flew above the white house .
the wool would become frazzled around the edges from blowing in the wind , and mama would mend it .
she used to tell me , `` when i stand there and look at the flag blowing this way and that way , i have the wonderful , safe feeling that americans are protected no matter which way the wind blows '' .
one person she helped was my brother .
he was in and out of mount alto hospital for veterans any number of times .
as a result , he was sent to a hospital in arizona until his health improved enough for him to come back to washington to work in the government service .
when mrs. coolidge was in mourning , she did not wear black .
mama knew that she was out of mourning when she finally wore bright colors .
she opened the boxes with a tear in her eye and a sad smile on her face .
it was her job to stand at the foot of the stairs , and , just as the first lady stepped off the last tread , mama would straighten out her long train before she marched to the blue room to greet her guests with the president .
one night , mama came home practically in a state of shock .
mama stooped down to fix the train , but there was no train there ! !
she looked up and saw that , without knowing it , mrs. coolidge was holding it aloft .
mama swirled the train in place , and not a step was lost .
impressive as this enumeration is , it barely hints at the diverse perceptions of jews , collectively or individually , that have been attested by their gentile environment .
some jews have in fact been all things to all men .
they have observed correct neutrality ; ;
in the market place jews have in fact under various circumstances been valued customers and suppliers , or clannish monopolists and cutthroat competitors .
diversity of perception , yes ; ;
but the two do not invariably or even typically coincide .
conventional images of jews have this in common with all perceptions of a configuration in which one feature is held constant : images can be both true and false .
the working test of `` the facts '' must always be the best available description obtainable from scholars and scientists who have applied their methods of investigation to relevant situations .
they are self-correcting in the sense that they are subject to disciplined procedures that check and recheck against error .
predispositions regarding intelligence .
if so , he would not be the first or last commanding officer who has succumbed to bad information and dubious estimates of the future .
he may have entered the situation with predispositions that prepared him to act uncritically in the press of affairs .
to some extent predispositions are shaped by exposure to group environments .
the anti-semitism of hitler owed something to his exposure to the ideology of lueger's politically successful christian socialist movement in vienna .
after allowing for group exposures , it is apparent that other factors must be considered if we are to comprehend fanaticism .
they include harmonies and conflicts within the whole man , and mechanisms whereby inner components are more or less smoothly met .
the foregoing factors are pertinent to the analysis of perceptual images and the broad conditions under which they achieve realism or fall short of it .
many selections are themselves convincing contributions to this appraisal .
speaking as a non-jew i believe that its primary contribution is in the realm of future policy .
in this domain the simple fact of coexistence in the same local , national , and world community is enough to guarantee that we cannot refrain from having some effect , large or small , upon gentile-jewish relations .
i am deliberately raising the policy problems involved in gentile-jewish relations .
the tasks are briefly indicated by these questions : what are my goals in gentile-jewish relations ? ?
what factors condition the degree of realization at various times and places ? ?
what policies if adopted and applied in various circumstances will increase the likelihood that future events will coincide with desired events and do so at least cost in terms of all human values ? ?
the discussion is therefore limited to a suggested procedure for realizing at least some of the potential importance of this volume for future policy .
my reply is that i associate myself with all those who affirm that gentile-jewish relations should contribute to the theory and practice of human dignity .
within this frame of reference policies appropriate to claims advanced in the name of the jews depend upon which jewish identity is involved , as well as upon the nature of the claim , the characteristics of the claimant , the justifications proposed , and the predispositions of the community decision makers who are called upon to act .
when decision makers act within this frame they determine whether a claim put forward in the name of religion is to be accepted by the larger community as appropriate to religion .
community decision makers must make up their minds whether a claim is acceptable to the larger community in terms of prevailing expectations regarding members of nation states .
the decision maker who acts for the community as a whole must decide whether the objectives pursued and the methods used are appropriate to public policy regarding cultural groups .
many public and private controversies will undoubtedly continue to reflect these confusions in the mind and usage of gentile and jew .
they involve similar uncertainties regarding the multiple identities of any number of non-jewish groups .
claims are properly disposed of according to norms common to all parties .
social process is always anchored in past predisposition ; ;
in conformance with the maximization principle we affirm that gentile-jewish relations will be harmonious or inharmonious to the degree that one relation or the other is expected by the active participants to yield the greatest net advantage , taking all value outcomes and effects into consideration .
for instance , imagine the situation if israel ever joins an enemy coalition .
the future weight of informal factors cannot be so easily assessed .
during moments of intense crisis the responsibility of political leaders is overwhelming .
at such critical moments predispositions favorable to human dignity most obviously `` pay off '' .
among measures in anticipation of crisis are plans to inject into the turmoil as assistants of key decision makers qualified persons who are cognizant of the corrosive effect of crisis upon personal relationships and are also able to raise calm and realistic voices when overburdened leaders near the limit of self-control .
the process can be accelerated .
during intercrisis periods the educational facilities of the community have the possibility of remolding the perspectives and altering the behavior of vast numbers of human beings of every age and condition .
now an abiding difficulty of paragraphs like the foregoing is that they appear to preach ; ;
in any case i do not intend to let the present occasion pass without dealing more directly with the problem of implementing good intentions .
properly used , the present book is an excellent instrument of enlightenment .
the traditional method proceeds by the technique of free association , punctuated by interpretations proposed by the psychoanalytic interviewer .
for what we propose , however , a psychoanalyst is not necessary , even though one aim is to enable the reader to get beneath his own defenses -- his defenses of himself to himself .
but involvement needs to be accompanied by a special frame of mind .
but simple involvement is not enough ; ;
the symposium provides an opportunity to confront the self with specific statements which were made at particular times by identifiable communicators who were addressing definite audiences -- and throughout several hundred pages everyone is talking about the same key symbol of identification .
two facets of this aspect of the literary process have special significance for our time .
in essence this involves grounding one's thought and emotion in the values and experience of others , rather than in one's own values and experience .
clearly what the person brings to the reading is important .
if he instructs them in how to evaluate a work , he is helping them to achieve their own identity .
in the range and variety of characters who , in their literary lives , get along all right with life styles one never imagined possible , there is an implicit lesson in differentiation .
and find in the answer a license to be a variant of the human species .
and this , i think , holds for values as well as life styles .
after all , the large ( and probably unreliable ) reader's digest literature on the `` most unforgettable character i ever met '' deals with village grocers , country doctors , favorite if illiterate aunts , and so forth .
but still , the proposition is worth examination .
i do not know that this is true ; ;
it forms the core of many , perhaps most , problems of psychotherapy .
still , it would be surprising if what one reads did not contribute to one's ideas of right and wrong ; ;
probably the most important thing to focus on is not the development of conscience , which may well be almost beyond the reach of literature , but the contents of conscience , the code which is imparted to the developed or immature conscience available .
in a small way this is illustrated by the nineteenth-century novelist who argued for the powerful influence of literature as a teacher of society and who illustrated this with the way a girl learned to meet her lover , how to behave , how to think about this new experience , how to exercise restraint .
this , no doubt , is part of what gilbert seldes implies when he says of the arts , `` they give form and meaning to life which might otherwise seem shapeless and without sense '' .
feeling useless seems generally to be an unpleasant sensation .
the terms `` renewal '' and `` refreshed '' , which often come up in aesthetic discussion , seem partly to derive their import from the `` renewal '' of purpose and a `` refreshed '' sense of significance a person may receive from poetry , drama , and fiction .
how literature does this , or for whom , is certainly not clear , but the content , form , and language of the `` message '' , as well as the source , would all play differentiated parts in giving and molding a sense of purpose .
let us differentiate a few of these ideas .
the idea here is one of discharge but this must stand in opposition to a second view , plato's notion of the arousal of emotion .
this is given some expression in beardsley's notion of harmony and the resolution of indecision .
it is possible that the idea of enrichment of emotion is a fifth idea .
if art is to release us from these postulated things ( things we must think symbolically about ) and bring us back to the ineffable beauty and richness of the aesthetic component of reality in its immediacy , it must sever its connection with these common sense entities '' .
richards' view of the aesthetic experience might constitute a sixth variety : for him it constitutes , in part , the organization of impulses .
but there is one in particular which , it seems to me , deserves special attention .
the study of literature contributes to this control in a curious way .
something indirect , mixed , reconciling , tensional might well be the stratagem , the devious technique by which a poet indulged in all kinds of talk about love and anger and even in something like `` expressions '' of these emotions , without aiming at their incitement or even uttering anything that essentially involves their incitement '' .
here i do not mean catharsis , the discharge of emotion .
there is a second feature of the influences of literature , good literature , on emotional life which may have some special value for our time .
perhaps it is only an analogy , but one of the most obvious differences between cheap fiction and fiction of an enduring quality is the development of a theme or story with leisure and anticipation .
it is at least possible that the capacity to postpone gratification is developed as well as expressed in a continuous and guided exposure to great literature .
in the calm which follows the reading of a poem , for example , is the effect produced by the enforced quiet , by the musical quality of words and rhythm , by the sentiments or sense of the poem , by the associations with earlier readings , if it is familiar , by the boost to the self-esteem for the semi-literate , by the diversion of attention , by the sense of security in a legitimized withdrawal , by a kind license for some variety of fantasy life regarded as forbidden , or by half-conscious ideas about the magical power of words ? ?
one of the most frequent views of the value of literature is the education of sensibility that it is thought to provide .
among other things it means perception , discrimination , sensitivity to subtle differences .
its truth is illustrated by the skill , sensitivity , and general expertise of the english professor with whom one attends the theatre .
along these lines , the particular point that sensitivity in literature leads to sensitivity in human relations would require more proof than i have seen .
solomon asch shows the transcultural stability of metaphors based on sensation ( hot , sweet , bitter , etc. ) dealing with personal qualities of human beings and events .
i would say , too , that the study of literature tends to give a person what i shall call depth .
it is the obverse of triviality , shallowness , emotional anaesthesia .
in fact , i can only say this seems to me to follow from a wide , continuous , and properly guided exposure to literary art .
we are all , though many of us are snobbish enough to wish to deny it , in far closer sympathy with the art of the music-hall and picture-palace than with chaucer and cimabue , or even shakespeare and titian .
but the possibility of this effort is bound up with that development of historical thought which is the greatest achievement of our civilization in the last two centuries , and it is utterly impossible to people in whom this development has not taken place .
one might argue that the ultimate purpose of literary scholarship is to correct this spontaneous provincialism that is likely to obscure the horizons of the general public , of the newspaper critic , and of the creative artist himself .
such study may take many forms .
of course , it goes without saying that no student of ideas can justifiably ignore the contemporary scene .
the continuities , contrasts , and similarities discernible when past and present are surveyed together are inexhaustible and the one is often understood through the other .
most students of literature , whether they call themselves scholars or critics , are ready to argue that it is possible to understand literary works as well as to enjoy them .
this understanding , of course , may in its turn take many forms and some of these -- especially those most interesting to the student of comparative literature -- are essentially historical .
he may also consider ideas .
but , in general , we may argue that the student can direct the primary emphasis of his attention toward one or the other .
the term idea refers to our more reflective or thoughtful consciousness as opposed to the immediacies of sensuous or emotional experience .
an idea , let us say , may be roughly defined as a theme or topic with which our reflection may be concerned .
outstanding among these is the idea of human nature itself , including the many definitions that have been advanced over the centuries ; ;
one might , indeed , argue that the history of ideas , in so far as it includes the literatures , must center on characterizations of human nature and that the great periods of literary achievement may be distinguished from one another by reference to the images of human nature that they succeed in fashioning .
an idea , of the sort that we have in mind , although of necessity readily available to imagination , is more general in connotation than most poetic or literary images , especially those appearing in lyric poems that seek to capture a moment of personal experience .
on the other hand , arnold's `` the unplumbed , salt , estranging sea '' , taken in its context , certainly does so .
thus the student of literature may sometimes find it helpful to classify a poem or an essay as being in idea or in ideal content or subject matter typical or atypical of its period .
our understanding will very probably require both these commentaries .
thus ideas like `` grace '' , `` salvation '' , and `` providence '' cluster together in traditional christianity .
accordingly we may speak of the platonism peculiar to shelley's poems or the type of stoicism present in henley's `` invictus '' , and we may find that describing such platonism or such stoicism and contrasting each with other expressions of the same attitude or mode of thought is a difficult and challenging enterprise .
again , henley's attitude of defiance which colors his ideal of self-mastery is far from characteristic of a stoic thinker like marcus aurelius , whose gentle acquiescence is almost christian , comparable to the patience expressed in milton's sonnet on his own blindness .
when these fields are surveyed together , important patterns of relationship emerge indicating a vast community of reciprocal influence , a continuity of thought and expression including many traditions , primarily literary , religious , and philosophical , but frequently including contact with the fine arts and even , to some extent , with science .
let us quote once more from r. g. collingwood : `` history is properly concerned with the actions of human beings regarded from the outside , an action is an event or series of events occurring in the physical world ; ;
it is a characteristic of thoughts that in re-thinking them we come , ipso facto , to understand why they were thought '' .
`` history has this in common with every other science : that the historian is not allowed to claim any single piece of knowledge , except where he can justify his claim by exhibiting to himself in the first place , and secondly to any one else who is both able and willing to follow his demonstration , the grounds upon which it is based .
the knowledge in virtue of which a man is an historian is a knowledge of what the evidence at his disposal proves about certain events '' .
the student of ideas and their place in history will always be concerned with the patterns of transition , which are at the same time patterns of transformation , whereby ideas pass from one area of activity to another .
we may thus trace the notion of individual autonomy from its manifestation in religious practice and theological reflection through practical politics and political theory into literature and the arts .
no one will deny that such broad developments and transitions are of great intrinsic interest and the study of ideas in literature would be woefully incomplete without frequent reference to them .
the actual moments of contact are vitally important .
perhaps the most powerful and most frequently recurring literary influence on the western world has been that of the old and new testament .
this reading and the comments that it evoked constitute the influence .
in much the same way , we recognize the importance of shakespeare's familarity with plutarch and montaigne , of shelley's study of plato's dialogues , and of coleridge's enthusiastic plundering of the writings of many philosophers and theologians from plato to schelling and william godwin , through which so many abstract ideas were brought to the attention of english men of letters .
english philosopher samuel alexander's debt to wordsworth and meredith is a recent interesting example , as also a. n. whitehead's understanding of the english romantics , chiefly shelley and wordsworth .
again the student of evolutionary biology will find a fascinating , if to our minds grotesque , anticipation of the theory of chance variations and the natural elimination of the unfit in lucretius , who in turn seems to have borrowed the concept from the philosopher empedocles .
we must avoid the notion , suggested to some people by examples such as those just mentioned , that ideas are `` units '' in some way comparable to coins or counters that can be passed intact from one group of people to another or even , for that matter , from one individual to another .
`` you could come down to the office once a day , look over a few exchanges , dictate an editorial , and then have the remainder of your time for your more serious literary labors .
of course , if you don't make the american a success , hearst will have no further use for you '' .
hearst's luck was even poorer when he had a chat with franklin k. lane , a prominent california journalist and reform politician , whom he asked for his support .
hearst disclaimed blame for this , but the conversation , according to lane , ended on a tart note .
`` mr. hearst '' , lane replied as he left , `` if you ever get a telegram from me asking you to do anything , you can put the telegram down as a forgery '' .
on april 10 , 1904 , his first child was born , a son named george after the late senator .
this was not before the house but before the judiciary committee , where he asked for action on one of his pet bills , that calling for an investigation of the coal-railroad monopoly .
hearst had spent more than $60,000 of his own money in the probe , but still attorney general knox was quiescent .
they had watered their stock at immense profit , then had raised the price of coal fifty cents a ton , netting themselves another $20,000,000 in annual profit .
`` he has not acted in any way , and won't let anyone take it away from him .
''
this was the very sort of legislation that roosevelt himself had in mind .
hatred tied his hands in congress .
they were repelled by his noisy newspapers , his personal publicity , his presumptuous campaign for the presidential nomination , and by the swelling cloud of rumor about his moral lapses .
he was the house pariah .
inherently incapable of cooperating with others , he ran his own show regardless of how many party-line democratic toes he stepped on .
he showed little interest in measures put forward by the regular democrats .
for a freshman congressman to read political lessons to graybeard democrats was poor policy for one who needed to make friends .
to old-line democrats , the hearst presidential boom , now in full cry , was the joke of the new century .
there was talk of dragging old ex-president cleveland out of retirement for another try .
there was a host of dark horses .
platoons of hearst agents were traveling from state to state in a surprisingly successful search for delegates at the coming convention , and there were charges that money was doing a large part of the persuading .
a bay state supporter said , `` mr. hearst's fight has been helped along greatly by the starting of his paper in boston '' .
he ordered his editors to tone down on sensationalism and to refrain from using such words as `` seduction '' , `` rape '' , `` abortion '' , `` criminal assault '' and `` born out of wedlock '' .
`` the argument that is cutting most ice is that hearst is the only candidate who is fighting the trusts fearlessly and who would use all the powers of government to disrupt them if he were elected .
this , it is urged , would relieve the national committee from the necessity of appealing to the trust magnates .
the average democratic politician , especially in the country districts , is hungry for the spoils of office .
if anything , the conservative democrats were more opposed to hearst than the republicans .
they had lost twice with the radical bryan , and were having no part of hearst , whom they considered more radical than bryan .
it caused henry watterson to sound a blast in his louisville courier-journal :
but there is a hearst barrel .
more splenetic was senator edward carmack of tennessee , a parker man .
`` it would be a disgrace , and , as i have already said to the people of tennessee , if hearst is nominated , we may as well pen a dispatch , and send it back from the field of battle : ' all is lost , including our honor ' '' .
`` i understand [ hearst ] is a candidate for presidential honors '' , devery said without cracking a smile .
if he's going to the st. louis convention as a delegate we ought to know it .
hearst won the iowa state convention , but ran into a bitter battle in indiana before losing to parker , drawing an angry statement from indiana's john w. kern :
our state has been overrun with a gang of paid agents and retainers .
the hearst dollar mark is all over them .
the talk of a hearst `` barrel '' was increasing .
in his fight for the illinois and indiana delegations , hearst made several trips to chicago to confer with andrew lawrence , the former san francisco examiner man who was now his chicago kingpin , and once to meet with bryan .
koenigsberg never did learn what hearst wanted , for the latter shook hands and moved toward the door .
`` i must hurry to catch my train '' .
`` i'll show you '' , hearst replied , grinning .
`` don't bother .
2 .
hearst hopped into a private railroad car with max ihmsen and made an arduous personal canvass for delegates in the western and southern states , always wearing a frock coat , listening intently to local politicians , and generally making a good impression .
`` i should , of course '' , he said , `` like any other man , be honored and gratified should the democrats see fit to nominate me .
i have supported the democratic party in the last five campaigns .
i intend to support the nominee of the party at st. louis , whoever he may be '' .
this was historic in its way , for it marked the first time an american presidential aspirant had advertised his own virtues in his own string of newspapers spanning the land .
when nan patterson , a stunning and money-minded chorus girl who had appeared in a floradora road show , rode down broadway in a hansom cab with her married lover , frank young , she stopped the cab to disclose that young had been shot dead , tearfully insisting that he had shot himself although experts said he could not have done so .
his passion and enthusiasm convey the courage and high adventure of garibaldi's exploits and give the reader a unique sense of participation in the events described .
the confused rambling of guerrilla warfare , such as most of garibaldi's campaigns were , was brought to life by trevelyan's pen in some of the best passages in the books .
military knowledge , love of detail , and a sure feeling for the portrayal of action were the added ingredients .
trevelyan contributed considerable new knowledge of the issues connected with his subject .
in looking back over the volumes , it is possible to find errors of interpretation , some of which were not so evident at the time of writing .
later research has shown this part of the legend of the re galantuomo to be false .
but fifty years later the trilogy still maintains a firm place in the list of standard works on the unification of italy , a position cautiously prophesied by the reviewers at the time of publication .
published in 1923 , it did not gain the popular acclaim of the garibaldi volumes , probably because trevelyan felt less at home with manin , the bourgeois lawyer , than with garibaldi , the filibuster .
if it is not one of his best books , it can only be considered unsatisfactory when compared with his own garibaldi .
first the life of john bright appeared and seven years later lord grey of the reform bill .
trevelyan centers too exclusively on bright , is insufficiently appreciative of the views of bright's opponents and critics , and makes light of the genuine difficulties faced by peel .
in the story of bright and the corn law agitation , the crimean war , the american civil war , and the franchise struggle trevelyan reflects something of the moral power which enabled this independent man to exercise so immense an influence over his fellow countrymen for so long .
associated in a sense with the manchester school through his mother's family , trevelyan conveys in this biography something of its moral conviction and drive .
the biography of lord grey is strictly speaking not a biography at all .
the volume is a piece of passionate special pleading , written with the heat -- and often with the wisdom , it must be said -- of a liberal damning the shortsightedness of politicians from 1782 to 1832 .
the theme of glorious summer coming after a long winter of discontent and repression was , he has told us , congenial to his artistic sense .
but his concentration on personalities and his categorical assessment of their actions fail to convey the political complexities of a long generation harassed by world-wide war and confronted with the problem of adjustment to an unprecedented industrial and social transformation .
the liberal-radical heritage which informs all of trevelyan's interpretations of history here seems clearly to have distorted the issues and oversimplified the period .
research in the period of grey and bright led naturally to a more ambitious work .
the plan is admirably fulfilled for the period up to 1832 .
his technique is genuinely masterful .
but after 1832 , the narrative tends to lose its balanced , many-sided quality and to become a medley of topics , often unconnected by any single thread .
yet after 1832 , the interrelations of economic and social and political affairs become blurred and the narrative becomes largely a conventional political account .
yet britain in the nineteenth century became the vade mecum of beginning students of history , went through edition after edition , and continues to be reprinted up to the very present .
in 1924 trevelyan traveled to the united states , where he delivered the lowell lectures at harvard university .
in short order , the general history became his most popular work and has remained , aside from his later social history , the work most widely favored by the public .
like green , trevelyan aimed to write a history not of `` english kings or english conquests '' , but of the english people .
the history takes too much for granted to serve as a text for other than english schoolboys , and like britain in the nineteenth century it deteriorates badly as it goes beyond 1870 .
but as a stimulating , provocative interpretation of the broad sweep of english development it is incomparable .
the strength of the history is also its weakness .
his nationalism was not a new characteristic , but its self-consciousness , even its self-satisfaction , is more obvious in a book that stretches over the long reach of english history .
tolerance and compromise , social justice and civil liberty , are today too often in short supply for one to be overly critical of trevelyan's emphasis on their central place in the english tradition .
four years after the publication of the history of england , the first volume of trevelyan's queen anne trilogy appeared .
his academic duties had little evident effect on his prolific pen .
like his volume on wycliffe , the work was accompanied by the publication of a selected group of documents , in this case illustrative of the history of queen anne's reign down to 1707 .
in addition , he believed in the `` dramatic unity and separateness of the period from 1702-14 , lying between the stuart and hanoverian eras with a special ethos of its own '' .
to most observers , there is little doubt that he placed an artificial strait jacket of unity upon the years of anne's reign which in reality existed only in the pages of his history .
in four opening chapters reminiscent of macaulay's famous third chapter , trevelyan surveys the state of england at the opening of the eighteenth century .
he tends to underestimate -- or perhaps to view charitably -- the brutality and the violence of the age , so that there is an idyllic quality in these pages which hazes over some of its sharp reality .
once the scene is set , trevelyan skilfully builds up the tense story until it reaches its climax in the dramatic victory of marlborough and eugene of savoy at blenheim .
the scene is etched in sharp detail , the military problems brilliantly explained , and the excitement and importance of the battle made evident .
ramillies and the union with scotland has fewer high spots than blenheim and much less of its dramatic unity .
i stood on a table , surrounded by hundreds of expectant young faces .
after making a short statement about human rights , and the freedom to travel , i told them i would be going to the kehl bridge the next morning in order to cross the rhine into germany .
called out a dozen young voices .
that was all they needed .
we would all meet at ten o'clock at the kehl bridge , five miles from strasbourg , and march triumphantly across into germany .
the real franco-german frontier was beyond the town's limits .
that evening , as i learned later , the students , enjoying that spontaneous immodesty in action known only to university students , surged out onto the streets of strasbourg , overturning empty streetcars , marking up store fronts , and shouting imprudently , `` garry davis to power '' ! !
alarmed by this display of weapons , i looked toward the bridge and there saw , stretched across the near side , a cordon of policemen , their bicycles forming a roadblock before which stood several french officers in uniform and a small waspish man in a brown derby .
`` i thank you most heartily for being here .
these principles , however , will not be served by violence in any form .
i ask you all to support me in this .
your self-control in this respect will be the only witness to your understanding of what i am saying .
i marched up to the waiting officials , the students massed behind me .
the waspish man stopped me three paces from the bicycle barricade , and asked me in french if i had papers to leave france .
he examined it carefully , handed it back and said , `` eh bien , you may leave france '' .
one of the uniformed officers stepped in my way , demanding to know whether i had permission to enter germany .
`` alors , you may go no farther '' , he said imperiously .
i asked him .
at this , the students let out a yell , knowing full well the actual frontier was beyond the town of kehl .
`` i must then be standing on the line between france and germany '' .
`` line ? ?
but there is no line between france and germany , that is , no actual line .
`` no line '' ? ?
`` but if there is no line , how can there be two countries ? ?
i have witnesses .
now i learn i cannot enter germany .
the students were laughing uproariously at this piece of logic , and even the policemen were trying hard not to smile .
`` oh ? ?
`` visa ? ?
you are still in france '' .
the interior man looked uneasily at his french compatriot .
`` there must be a line '' ! !
seeing their hesitation , i said , `` well , until i have permission to enter germany , or a visa to re-enter france , i shall be obliged to remain here on the line between two countries '' , whereupon i moved to the side of the road , parked my backpack against the small guardhouse on the sidewalk , sat down , took out my typewriter , and began typing the above conversation .
finally they went off to file their stories , after the photographers had taken pictures of my latest vigil .
`` but what will you do this evening , mr. davis '' ? ?
`` it will be very cold '' .
`` i shall see about getting you a tent '' , he said .
that would be a great help , i told him , thanking him for his thoughtfulness .
the day passed eventfully enough , with a constant stream of visitors , some stopping only to say hello , others getting into serious conversations , such as one andre fuchs , a free-lance journalist from strasbourg who wrote an article for the nouvelle alsatian in highly sympathetic terms .
a volunteer food brigade had been arranged , they told me , which would supply me with the necessities as long as i remained at the bridge .
one of the girl students , sitting by while i ate the thick soup , asked me if i had a sleeping bag .
`` you do not know me '' , she said in good english , `` but my mother was your governess in philadelphia when you were a child '' .
i was delighted to make that personal contact in such trying and unusual circumstances .
sighting a line from the bridge to a small field directly to the side , i pitched the tent that evening on the stateless `` line '' , digging a small trench around it as best i could with a toy spade donated by a neighborhood child .
after scouring around a bit in the open area , i came across what proved to be tar-soaked logs which crackled and burned brightly , giving off vast rolls of smoke into the ashen sky .
i had advised friends to write me to `` no man's land , pont kehl , between strasbourg and kehl , france-germany '' .
on christmas eve , students brought out two small christmas trees which i placed on either side of the tent .
to my great surprise and delight , when they saw the two trees they went rushing off , returning shortly with decorations from their own trees .
in the mail were invitations to speak at the universities of cologne , heidelberg , and baden-baden .
when dr. adenauer was approached by a world citizen delegation to find out his disposition of my case , he gave them his personal approval of my entry , saying that all men advocating peace should be welcomed into germany .
as it began raining at around eight o'clock on december 26th , i retired into my tent early , somewhat tired and discouraged , my body reacting sluggishly because of the continued exposure .
`` oh , mr. davis , are you there '' ? ?
`` who is it '' ? ?
may we have a word with you '' ? ?
i've had a trying day and i just can't make it out again '' , i told them .
later i learned that sir hugh dalton had expressed a desire to see me , hence their trip to `` no man's land '' .
she entreated me to see a doctor , and when i refused , brought one out to see me .
i wouldn't hear of it because it meant giving up the `` line '' , though i realized i was in poor shape physically .
`` no , it's not that '' , i told her .
at that moment , up walked a tall young man with glasses who announced himself as a world citizen from basel , switzerland .
`` but of course , with pleasure '' , he replied .
i looked from her to him .
i asked him .
`` shake '' , i said .
esther jumped up , ran to him and gave him a little hug .
now come , garry , we must go quickly .
maybe they will take us '' .
he remembered every detail of his pre-assault movements but nothing of the final , desperate rush to come to grips with the enemy .
his hat was gone , the tears were streaming from his eyes .
six climactic minutes in an individual's life left no memory .
eight field guns were captured in position .
it was the only sizable assault upon infantry and artillery behind breastworks successfully made by either side during the atlanta campaign .
the thirty-eighth regiment of ohio volunteers , one of the regiments in thomas' first division during buell's command , suffered its greatest loss of the war in this action .
sherman was responsible for the story when he said in his memoirs that this was the only time he could recall seeing thomas ride so fast .
it is not in the record , but he must have galloped his horse at peach tree creek when he brought up ward's guns to save newton's crumbling line .
the dispatch must have been sent after sundown on september 1 .
on the morning of september 2 the fourth corps and the armies of the tennessee and the ohio followed the line of hardee's retreat .
the fourth corps assaulted and carried a small portion of the enemy works but could not hold possession of the gain for want of cooperation from the balance of the line .
before making the news public sherman sent an officer with the note to thomas .
the cautious thomas re-examined the note and then , making up his mind that it was genuine , snapped his fingers , whistled and almost danced in his exuberance .
the measure of combat efficiency in an indecisive campaign is a matter of personal choice .
hood refused to notice anything except captured guns and colors .
thomas thanked his men for their tenacity of purpose , unmurmuring endurance , cheerful obedience , brilliant heroism and high qualities in battle .
he supposed the military world would approve of his accomplishment .
for some time , despondency in some northern quarters had been displayed in two ways -- an eagerness for peace and a dissatisfaction with lincoln .
lincoln was sure that he would not be re-elected .
to the republicans no victory could have been more complete .
lincoln mentioned their distinguished ability , courage and perseverance .
grant called it prompt , skillful and brilliant .
actually the atlanta campaign was a military failure .
sherman had accomplished this much of his job and then inexplicably nullified it by his thirty-mile retreat from lovejoy's to atlanta .
within the narrow frame of military tactics , too , the experts agree that the campaign was brilliant .
there was a battle on an average of once every three weeks .
in the summary of the principal events of the campaign compiled from the official records there are only ten days which show no fighting .
men were killed in their camps , at their meals and in their sleep .
modern warfare was born in this campaign -- periscopes , camouflage , booby traps , land mines , extended order , trench raids , foxholes , armored cars , night attacks , flares , sharpshooters in trees , interlaced vines and treetops , which were the forerunners of barbed wire , trip wires to thwart a cavalry charge , which presaged the mine trap , and the general use of anesthetics .
a few weeks later the maps were being divided into squares and a position was described as being `` about lots 239 , 247 and 272 with pickets forward as far as 196 '' .
orders of the day began to specify the standard map for the movement .
to the rebels it seemed as if sherman carried tunnels and bridges in his pockets .
as always , the ranks worked out new and better tactics , but there was brilliance in the way the field commands adopted these methods and in the way the army commanders incorporated them into their military thinking .
sherman could never be accused of sticking too long with the old .
he never saw that it was a complement to his infantry and not a substitute for it .
a horse needed twenty pounds of food a day but the infantryman got along with two pounds .
so sherman tried a compromise .
it failed to work .
every recorded request by thomas for a delay in a flank movement or an advance was to gain time to take care of his horses .
first , it could locate the enemy infantry , learn what they were doing , and hold them until the heavy foot columns could come up and take over .
third , it could threaten at all times , and destroy when possible , the enemy communications .
its climactic role was to pursue and demoralize a defeated enemy but this chance never came in the atlanta campaign .
sherman knew the uses of cavalry as well as thomas but he imagined a moving base with infantry wings instead of cavalry wings .
sherman insisted that cavalry could not successfully break up hostile railways , yet garrard's covington raid and rousseau's opelika raid cut two-thirds of the rail lines he had to break and sherman lived in mortal fear of what forrest might do to his communications .
it stumbled on infantry where no infantry should have been and mcpherson's aggressive impulse faded out , overwhelmed by fears of the unknown .
from the night of august 30 to the morning of september 2 there was no union cavalry east of the macon railway to disclose to sherman that he was missing the greatest opportunity of his career .
at such times thomas wondered when and where a counterattack would strike him .
heat during the atlanta campaign , coupled with unsuitable clothing , caused individual irritation that was compounded by a lack of opportunity to bathe and shift into clean clothing .
johnston believed that sherman put his naked engineers into the swimming parties to locate the various fords .
the water was deep and brownlow took his troopers across naked -- except for guns , cartridge boxes and hats .
most of the rebels got away since they could make better time through the stiff brush than their naked pursuers .
merited recommendations from army commanders were passed over in favor of political appointees from civil life .
that was a very absurd and annoying situation in which i was placed by w. m.'s curious methods of handling me .
the result was that i found myself in the ridiculous position of having made a formal engagement by letter for the next week , only two days before my departure from london .
it need hardly be remarked that thompson was not generally known for his scrupulosity about keeping his social engagements , which makes his irritation in this letter all the more significant .
some , she knew , looked upon thompson almost as a saint , but others read in `` the hound of heaven '' what they took to be the confessions of a great sinner , who , like oscar wilde , had -- as one pious writer later put it -- thrown himself `` on the swelling wave of every passion '' .
katherine was staying at a convent , and her mother felt that , as thompson himself seems to have suggested , she might eventually stay there .
for his part , thompson had explained in a previous letter that there would be nothing but an honorable friendship between katie and himself .
in any case , she told thompson that she saw no reason why he might not see katie again , `` now that this frank explanation has been made & no one can misunderstand '' .
after thompson came to london to live , he received a letter from katie , which was dated february 8 , 1897 .
this letter concluded with an invitation : ``
mr. meynell knows the way .
but if you are able & care to come , you know how glad i shall be .
katherine douglas king '' the invitation was accepted and other letters followed , in which she spoke of her concern for his health and her delight in seeing him so much at home among the crippled children she served .
in a letter to meynell , which was written in june , less than a month before katie's wedding , he was highly melodramatic in his despair and once again announced his intention of returning to the life of the streets : ``
perhaps mrs. meynell would do me the undeserved kindness to keep my own copy of the first edition of my first book , with all its mementos of her and the dear ones .
the terrible blow of the new year put an end to that project .
i have not the heart .
o my genius , young and ripening , you would swear , -- when i wrote them ; ;
what has it all come to ? ?
i want you to be grandfather to these orphaned poems , dear father-brother , now i am gone ; ;
for them a box will be lodgment enough .
since my silence must have ended when i gave the purposed volume to you .
if you don't think much of them , tell me the wholesome truth .
o wilfrid ! !
but this -- yes , terrible step i am about to take is lightened with an inundating joy by the new-found hope that here , in these poems , is treasure -- or at least some measure of beauty , which i did not know of '' .
meynell once again paid his debts and it was katie , rather than thompson , whose life was soon ended , for she died in childbirth in april , 1901 , in the first year of her marriage .
the publication of father connolly's the man has wings has made more of the group available in print so that a general picture of what it contained can now be had without difficulty .
others suggest its coming loss or describe the poet's feelings when he learns of a final separation .
when they were first written , there was evidently no thought of their being published , and those which refer to the writer's love for mrs. meynell particularly have the ring of truth .
my own stern hand has rent the ancient bond , and thereof shall the ending not have end : but not for me , that loved her , to be fond lightly to please me with a newer friend then hold it more than bravest-feathered song , that i affirm to thee , with heart of pride , i knew not what did to a friend belong till i stood up , true friend , by thy true side ; ;
taking into account thompson's capacity for self-dramatization and the possibility of a wish to identify his own life with the misfortunes of other poets who had known unhappy loves , there can be no doubt about his genuine emotion for katie king .
from the outset , she must have realized that marriage with him was out of the question , and although she was displeased by the `` unwarrantable '' interference , it seems probable that she did agree with her mother's suggestion that the poet was `` perhaps '' a man `` most fitted to live & die solitary , & in the love only of the highest lover '' .
their interest remains chiefly biographical , for they throw some light on the utter despair which overtook thompson in the spring and early summer of 1900 .
reid simply states , without offering any supporting evidence , that `` after he returned to london , he resumed his draughts of laudanum , and continued this right up to his death '' .
if , as reid says , `` nearly all his poetry was produced when he was not taking opium '' , there may be some reason to doubt that he was under its influence in the period from 1896 to 1900 when he was writing the poems to katie king and making plans for another book of verse .
meynell's remedy for thompson's despondent mood was typically practical .
3 ,
that he read some of the books assigned to him with a studied carefulness is evident from his notes , which are often so full that they provide an unquestionable basis for the identification of reviews that were printed without his signature .
he was seldom an unmethodical critic , and his reviews generally followed a systematic pattern : a description of what the work contained , a treatment of the things that had especially interested him in it , and , wherever possible , a balancing of whatever artistic merits and faults he might have found .
reviewing davidson's the testament of an empire builder , for example , thompson found that there was `` too much metrical dialectic '' .
yet davidson impressed him as a poet capable of `` sustained power , passion , or beauty '' , and he cited specific passages to illustrate not only these qualities but davidson's command of imagery as well .
but he admired housman's `` subtle intellectuality '' and delighted in the inversion by which divine love becomes the most `` fatal '' allurement in `` love the tempter '' .
understanding , as he did , the difficulty of the art of poetry , and believing that the `` only technical criticism worth having in poetry is that of poets '' , he felt obliged to insist upon his duty to be hard to please when it came to the review of a book of verse .
thence he pushed farther south than he had ever been before into podolia and nogay tartary or the yedisan .
by june 19 , 1788 , he had presented himself to its commander in chief , the governor of the southern provinces , the director of the war college -- the prince .
by 1783 her legions had managed to annex the crimea amid scenes of wanton cruelty and now , in this second combat with the crescent , were aiming at suzerainty over all of the black sea's northern shoreline .
those of 1788 were going to prove decisive , though many of their details are obscure .
potemkin was directing this conflict on three fronts : in the caucasus ; ;
and in the misty marshlands and shallow coastal waters of nogay tartary and taurida , including the crimean peninsula .
potemkin's army of ekaterinoslav , totaling , it was claimed , 40,000 regular troops and 6,000 irregulars of the cossack corps , had invested islam's principal stronghold on the north shore of the black sea , the fortress town of oczakov , and was preparing to test the turk by land and sea .
as his second in command the prince had marshal repnin , one-time ambassador to poland .
some people thought he lacked both ability and character , but most agreed that he was noble in appearance and , for a russian , humane .
at general headquarters the newcomer in turn got to know others .
then there were the distinguished foreign volunteers .
and general the count pallavicini , founder of the austrian branch of that celebrated italian house , a courtier littlepage could have met at madrid in december , 1780 .
out of saxony rode the prince of anhalt-bernburg , one of the czarina's cousins and a lieutenant general in her armies , a frank , sensitive , popular soldier whose kindnesses littlepage would `` always recall with the sincerest gratitude '' .
the energetic parisian , roger de damas , three year's littlepage's junior , to whom nassau had taken a liking ; ;
england contributed a young subaltern named newton and the naval architect samuel bentham , brother to the economist , who for his colonel's commission was proving a godsend to the russian fleet .
lewis had expected to report at once to jones's and nassau's naval command post .
'' so of course he stayed put .
the prince's perceptions were quick and his energy monstrous , but these qualities were sapped by an oriental lethargy and a policy of letting nothing interfere with personal passions .
an entire theater had been set up for his diversion , with a 200-man italian orchestra under the well-known sarti .
lewis could let his eye caress the prince's divan , covered with a rose-pink and silver turkish cloth , or admire the lovely tapis , interwoven with gold , that spread across the floor .
around the billiard tables were always at least a couple of dozen beribboned generals .
among the visitors arriving every now and then there were , of course , women .
usually lewis would find at headquarters one or more of the prince's various nieces .
the prince took her with him on every tour around the area , and it was rumored he was utilizing her knowledge of constantinople as part of his espionage network .
when a lady chanced to soil a pair of evening slippers , brigadier bauer was dispatched to paris for replacements .
he had collared one of his generals in public .
when this happened , everything stopped .
he stays inactive for half the summer in front of oczakov , a quite second-rate spot , begins to besiege it formally only during the autumn rains , and finally carries it by assault in the heart of winter .
to help him do so the prince had conferred control of his land forces on a soldier who was different from him in almost every respect save one : both were eccentrics of the purest ray serene .
he had a small mouth with deep furrows on either side , a large flat nose , and penetrating blue eyes .
he was ugly .
like all russians he was an emotional man , and in him the emotions warred .
but he was perpetually engaged in a battle to command his own temper .
age ? ?
current status ? ?
suvorov's contempt for don't-know's was proverbial ; ;
despising luxuries of any sort for a soldier , he slept on a pile of hay with his cloak as blanket .
his breakfast was tea ; ;
his supper was nothing .
he kept several pet birds and liked cats well enough that if one crept by , he would mew at it in friendly fashion .
yet general suvorov -- who had never forgotten hearing his adored czarina declare that all truly great men had oddities -- was mad only north , northwest .
in camp he knew it won you the affection of your men .
underneath , he remained one of the best-educated russians of his day .
he had also mastered the cossack tongue .
potemkin -- as king stanislas knew , and presently informed littlepage -- looked on the cossacks as geopolitical tools .
suvorov saw in these scimitar-wielding skirmishers not demographic units but military men of a high potential .
he always kept a few on his personal staff .
broad red stripes down the trouser leg ; ;
suvorov played parent not just to his cossacks but to all his troops .
these illiterate boors conscripted from villages all across the czarina's empire had , suvorov may have told lewis , just two things a commander could count on : physical fitness and personal courage .
they emerged as interchangeable cogs in a faulty but formidable machine : shaved nearly naked , hair queued , greatcoated , jackbooted , and best of all -- in the opinion of the british professional , major semple-lisle -- `` their minds are not estranged from the paths of obedience by those smatterings of knowledge which only serve to lead to insubordination and mutiny '' .
`` he's got high blood pressure , too , and bum kidneys '' , the doctor said to me .
he looked disapprovingly at an ash tray piled high with cigarette stubs , shook his head , and moved his hand back and forth in a strong negative gesture .
seeing this , his colleague at the next desk gave a short , contemptuous laugh , pushed forward his own ash tray , innocent of a single butt , thumped his chest to show his excellent condition , and looked proud .
at this moment mando came hurrying up to announce that the problem was solved and all norton had to do was to sign a sheaf of papers .
by this time word had got around that an american doctor was on the premises .
it was funny but it was also touching .
i might not make any money but i'd sure have patients '' .
deppy is despina messinesi , a long-time member of the vogue staff who , although born in boston , was born there of greek parents .
`` all you have to do , ilka dear , is to phone on your arrival .
the wear and tear of life have taught me that very few friends of mutual friends long to see foreign strangers , but i planned on being the soul of tact , of giving them plenty of outs was there the tiniest implication that their cups were already running over without us .
greek phone service is worse than french , so that it was to be some little time before contact of any sort was established .
we stopped first at the amphitheater that lies at the foot of the height crowned by the parthenon .
the carved statues of the frieze against the low wall are for the most part headless , but their exquisitely graceful nude and draped torsos and the kneeling atlantes are well preserved in their perfect proportion .
i suppose the same emotion holds , if to a lesser degree , with any famous monument .
the weight of fame and history is formidable , and dreary steel engravings in schoolbooks do little to quicken interest and imagination .
and then perhaps one day we get to athens .
we've come a long way and spent a lot of money .
don't worry about the acropolis .
probably every visitor has a favorite time for his first sight of it .
the light at that time is a benediction .
all we wanted to do was to stand very quietly and look and look and look .
in 1687 the turks , who had been in control of the city since the fifteenth century , with a truly shattering lack of prudence used the parthenon as a powder magazine .
nearby is the temple of athena .
another beautiful building is the propylaea , the entrance gate of the acropolis .
for some happy reason doric , ionic , and corinthian have always stuck in my mind .
it remained , however , for mando to teach me that doric symbolized strength , ionic wisdom , and corinthian beauty , the three pillars of the ancient world .
another classic sight that gave us considerable pleasure was the evzone sentry , in his ballet skirt with great pompons on his shoes , who was patrolling up and down in front of the palace .
we did not dare speak to so exalted a being , but norton aimed his camera and shot him , so to speak , on the rise , the split second between the halt and the turn .
on the way out mr. sakellariadis detoured up a special hill from which one may obtain a matchless view of the acropolis lighted by night .
these performances were being staged at historical monuments throughout europe .
the acropolis had been scheduled for the treatment too , but apparently it was to take place at the time of the full moon when the athenians themselves , out of respect for the natural beauty of the occasion , were wont to forgo their own usual nocturnal illumination .
the artists contended that the philistines , gross of soul , were all for having son et lumiere , since the french were footing the bill and the attraction , wherever it had been done , had proven popular .
the acropolis was unique in the world and if that imcomparable work flooded by moonlight wasn't enough for both natives and tourists , then they were quite simply barbarians and the hell with them .
the restaurant to which the sakellariadises took us on this night of controversy was the asteria , on asteria beach .
office workers frequently go out there to lunch and swim during the siesta period , which , during the summer , lasts from two until five in the afternoon , when shops and offices are again open for business .
nine o'clock is the rush hour , when the busses are jammed , and by nine-thirty the restaurants are beginning to fill .
the sand is fine and pleasant , the cabanas are clean , and the parasols , green , raspberry , and butter yellow , are very gay .
the atmosphere is that of an attractive private beach club at home .
this agreeable state of affairs is explicable , i think , on two counts .
the public may still find pleasure in public places .
we were struck by the notable absence of banana skins and beer cans , but just so that we wouldn't go overboard on greek refinement , perfection was side-stepped by a couple of braying portable radios .
a good deal of english was spoken on the beach , most educated greeks learn it in childhood , and there were also american wives and children of our overseas servicemen .
the road , a comparatively new one , is very good , winding along inlets , coves , and bays of deep and brilliant blue .
three beneficial hurdles to progress are the lack of water , electricity , and telephones .
gaunt scaffoldings adjoined the ruins , and on the ground segments of columns two and a half to three feet in thickness were being fitted with sections cunningly chiseled to match exactly the fluting and proportion of the original .
there is a mediocre restaurant at sounion and i fed a thin little grecian cat and gave it two saucers of water -- there was no milk -- which it lapped up as though it were nectar .
norton and i dined one night in a sea-food restaurant in piraeus right on the water's edge .
across the road is the kitchen , and waiters bearing great trays of dishes dodge traffic as nimbly as their french colleagues at the restaurant in the place du tertre in paris .
how can a cat be thin in a fish restaurant ? ?
when offered a morsel it glanced right and left and winced , obviously frightened and expecting a kick , but too hungry not to snatch the tidbit .
this of course was not true of the educated and sophisticated people we met , who loved their pets , but kindness is not a basic human instinct .
his english was limited , and the little he knew he found irritating .
this he claimed was the favorite refrain of the english .
`` let him become honest , and they discard him .
in proportion to the degradation of his moral worth , is the increase of his worth to them '' .
he claimed in his attacks that woodruff , with scurrilous underhandedness , had deliberately written an ambiguous bid that had so confused the honest members of the legislature that they had awarded him the contract without knowing what they were doing .
the game is not worth the ammunition it would cost .
despite woodruff's continuing refusal to debate with pike through the columns of his newspaper , pike did not let up his attack for a moment .
so persistent were these attacks that in march of the following year , woodruff was finally moved to action , and pike was to learn his first lesson in frontier politics , the subtle art of diversion .
by this time woodruff had accurately measured pike as a man of great personal pride , a man who would fly into a towering rage if his integrity were questioned , and who would be anxious to avenge himself .
the charges would be made in the gazette by an anonymous correspondent , and pike would be so busy trying to track down the illusive character assassin that he would forget about harassing woodruff .
pike was stunned by the first blast against his character , which was published in the march 4th issue of the gazette under the name `` vale '' .
he called pike a thief .
he accused pike of continuing his sticky-fingered career in arkansas with the theft of some otter skins in van buren .
outraged , he used the advocate of march 7th for a denial , sending immediately to santa fe and van buren for documents to vindicate himself , and demanding that woodruff reveal the name of this perfidious slanderer who disguised himself under a pastoral pseudonym .
finally he learned through the grapevine that the culprit might be one james w. robinson in pope county .
robinson did neither .
on april 11th he wrote an open letter in the advocate , making it known `` to the world that jas. w. robinson is by his own admission a base liar and a slanderer '' .
preoccupied with his own defense and his attempts to get robinson to fight , pike lessened his attacks on woodruff , and finally stopped them altogether .
woodruff's strategy had been immensely successful .
once he learned a lesson , he never forgot it .
shortly after the `` vale '' incident , a rift began to develop between william woodruff and governor pope .
woodruff had supported him all the way , both as a chief executive and as a man .
this warm relationship came to an abrupt end in june of 1834 when the national congress appropriated $3,000 for compiling and printing the laws of arkansas territory , and , taking note of the recent wave of corruption in the legislature , left it to the governor to award the contract .
after all , woodruff owned a competent printing plant and was the logical man for the job .
woodruff was furious .
`` we think the governor treated us rather shabbily , to say the least of it .
he got a good fat job and we congratulate him on his good luck .
as summer cooled into fall and winter , even so the relationship between the two men continued to grow colder by the day , and by december of 1834 it was icy .
the eventual prize in this new battle was the public printing contract that woodruff still held .
to document his charge , pike set up two parallel columns in the advocate showing the price charged by the gazette and the considerably lower price for which the work could be done elsewhere .
the governor was not used to having his integrity questioned , and he promptly passed the charges on to woodruff , demanding that woodruff answer them .
woodruff was now impaled on the horns of a dilemma .
as a consequence , he did neither .
and , for the moment at least , the governor now found himself allied with the head of the crittenden faction he had formerly opposed , and pike was credited with a clear triumph over woodruff .
on january 28 , 1835 , andrew jackson removed pope from office and elevated territorial secretary william s. fulton to the position .
as a stanch party man and a rabid democrat , he had little tolerance for whigs like pike , and pike lost any immediate personal advantage his victory over woodruff might have gained him .
; ;
after all , pike was an established poet and his work had been published in the respectable periodicals of that center of american culture , boston .
for some reason , none of them were impressed with the territorial capital .
`` little rock is a vile , detestable place .
`` little rock is , without any flattery , one of the dullest towns in the united states and i would not have remained two hours in the place , if i had not met with some good friends who made me forget its dreariness '' .
he was especially popular with women , for , like the romantic poetry he wrote , he was personally gracious , gallant , and chivalrous .
his artistic accomplishments guaranteed him entry into any social gathering .
the bulk of his early reputation , however , came not from his poetry or his music , but from his excellence as an orator .
the orator of this period , in order to earn a reputation , had to pay close attention to the formal composition of his speech , judging how it would appear in print as well as the effect it would have on the audience that heard it .
samuel gorton , founder of warwick , was styled by the historian samuel greene arnold `` one of the most remarkable men who ever lived '' .
the historian charles francis adams called him `` a crude and half-crazy thinker '' .
edward rawson , secretary of the colony of massachusetts bay , described him as `` a man whose spirit was stark drunk with blasphemies and insolence , a corrupter of the truth , a disturber of the peace wherever he comes '' .
he was thrown out , more or less , from boston , plymouth , pocasset , newport , and providence .
he said gorton was a holy man ; ;
he was universally beloved by his neighbours , and the indians , who esteemed him , not only as a friend , but one high in communion with god in heaven '' .
there is plenty more to recommend gorton , the facts of whose life are given in the life and times of samuel gorton , by adelos gorton .
he defied the boston hierarchy , and after they sent a small army to get him he befuddled the court , including john cotton , with one of the most complicated religious discourses ever heard .
although he did not attend any celebrated schools or universities , he was a master of greek and hebrew and could read the bible in the original .
gorton left england , he said , `` to enjoy libertie of conscience in respect to faith towards god , and for no other end '' .
roger williams had recently been thrown out , and anne hutchinson and her antinomians were slugging it out with the powers-that-be .
soon he was in trouble there , for defending a woman who was accused of smiling in church .
the report was : ``
gorton said they were preparing to deport her as a vagabond , and to escape the shame she fled to the woods for several days , returning at night .
gorton appeared for her , however , and what he told the magistrates must have been plenty , for he was charged with deluding the court , fined , and told to leave the colony within fourteen days .
his wife was in delicate health and nursing an infant with measles .
one can imagine that with her and gorton there it was no place for anyone with weak nerves .
when , in march , 1640 , the two towns were united under coddington , gorton claimed the union was irregular and illegally constituted and that it had never been sanctioned by the majority of freeholders .
a cow owned by an old woman trespassed on gorton's land .
the old woman complained to the deputy governor , who ordered the servant brought before the court .
during the trial he told off the jury , called them `` just asses '' and called a freeman `` a saucy boy and jack-an-apes '' .
gorton then moved to providence and soon put the town in a turmoil .
since rhode island at that time did not have such sanction , his opinion was not popular .
master gorton , having foully abused high and low at aquidneck is now bewitching and bemaddening poor providence , both with his unclean and foul censures of all the ministers of this country ( for which myself have in christ's name withstood him ) , and also denying all visible and external ordinances in depth of familism : almost all suck in his poison , as at first they did at aquidneck .
yet the tide is too strong against us , and i fear ( if the framer of hearts help not ) it will force me to little patience , a little isle next to your prudence '' .
providence finally managed to get gorton out of the town , and he and some friends bought land at pawtuxet on the west side of narragansett bay , five miles south but still within the jurisdiction of the providence colony .
up to now , gorton had been looking for trouble , and now that he was trying to get away from it , trouble started looking for him .
as it was the custom of that alert colony to take over the property of persons asking for protection , this was an act roughly equivalent to throwing open the door to a pack of wolves and saying `` come and get it '' .
the settlement was called shawomet .
if gorton wanted peace and quiet for his complicated meditations this is where he should have had it .
pomham and soconoco , a couple of minor sachems ( of something less than exalted character ) under miantonomi , declared that they had never assented to the sale of land to gorton and had never received anything for it .
one historical authority presents laborious and circuitous testimony tending to arouse suspicion that massachusetts was behind the clouds settling down on the embattled gorton .
the purchasers rejected the order in two letters written in vigorous terms .
it pointed out twenty-six instances of blasphemy in the letters , and ordered the writers to submit or force of arms would be used .
the latter tried to arbitrate through a delegation from providence , which offer was declined by the invaders .
at shawomet , women and children fled in terror across the bay .
gorton evidently still had plenty to learn about massachusetts , but he was learning fast .
you may do well to take notice , that besides the title to land between the english and the indians there , there are twelve of the english that have subscribed their names to horrible and detestable blasphemies , who are rather to be judged as blasphemous than they should delude us by winning time under pretence of arbitration '' .
the attackers sent for more soldiers , and the defenders , to save bloodshed , surrendered under the promise that they would be treated as neighbors .
when the captives arrived in boston , `` the chaplain ( of their captors ) went to prayers in the open streets , that the people might take notice what they had done in a holy manner , and in the name of the lord '' .
on sunday they refused to attend church .
the prisoners agreed , provided they might speak after the sermon , which was permitted .
the boston elders were great at befuddling the opposition with torrents of ecclesiastical obscurities , but gorton was better .
gorton replied with blasts that scandalized the congregation .
the gortonists were charged with blasphemy and tried for their lives .
whether the fathers , who died before christ was born of the virgin mary , were justified and saved only by the blood which he shed , and the death which he suffered after his incarnation ? ?
whether the only price of our redemption were not the death of christ on the cross , with the rest of his sufferings and obediences , in the time of his life here , after he was born of the virgin mary ? ?
who was the god whom he thinke we serve ? ?
what he means when he saith , wee worship the starre of our god remphan , chion , moloch '' ? ?
all of the elders except three voted for death , but a majority of the deputies refused to sanction the sentence .
the three others got off easier .
when fred wheeled him back into his room , the big one looking out on the back porch , and put him to bed , papa told him he was very tired but that he had enjoyed greatly the trip downtown .
getting out again , seeing old friends , had given his spirits a lift .
papa was still elated over his afternoon visit downtown .
`` it was mighty good for the old man to get out again '' .
but a few days after fred's return he began hemorrhaging and that was the beginning of early and complete disintegration .
we got dr. glenn to him as quickly as we could , and we wired tom of papa's desperate condition .
dr. glenn saw at once what had happened .
`` it'll take a lot to replace it '' .
let me give papa blood '' .
to give a patient the wrong type of blood , said the doctor , would likely kill him .
one had to find a donor , and usually very quickly , whose blood corresponded with the patient's .
they had to take blood samples to the laboratory to test them , for one thing , and there was much required preliminary procedure .
by now it was perhaps two days or longer after papa had begun hemorrhaging .
`` but we aren't going to let you give him any '' .
fred demanded .
`` because , fred , it could do him no good .
he's past helping .
and in a few minutes papa was dead .
papa had left us about the same hour of the night that ben had passed on .
`` w. o. wolfe , prominent business man and pioneer resident of this section , died shortly after midnight tuesday at his home 48 spruce street '' , the asheville times of wednesday , june 21 , announced .
a biographical sketch followed .
beloved dr. r. f. campbell , our first presbyterian church pastor , was in charge .
all about him stood tombstones his own sensitive great hands had fashioned .
at his death fred and ralph , my husband , were named executors of the estate under the terms of the will .
the bills were principally for hospitalization and doctors' fees during the last years of his life , and when he died he owed in the main only current doctor's bills .
this , manifestly , would not provide $5000 to each of the surviving five children .
consequently , fred and tom , the two who had been provided college educations , signed statements to the effect that each had received his bequest in full , and effie and i were each allotted $5000 .
he was given the difference between that amount and $5000 .
so , because he had received less than tom , it was felt proper that fred should receive the few hundred dollars that remained .
papa , i should emphasize , had been an invalid the last several years of his life ; ;
had he been able to escape this long siege of invalidism , i'm convinced , papa would have left a sizable estate .
he had left us a legacy far more valuable than houses and lands and stocks and bonds .
i recall that several years their taxes exceeded $800 .
`` merciful god , julia '' ! !
but he never expected to do that .
35 .
but he had delayed accepting this job , and as he was leaving to come home to papa in response to our telegram , he dropped a postcard to miss mccrady , head of the harvard appointment office , asking her please to write northwestern authorities and explain the circumstances .
in fact , he didn't want to teach anywhere .
but papa's death had further complicated the financing of tom's hoped-for third year , and for the weeks following it tom did not know whether his return to harvard could be arranged .
but he was happy to tell her that his finances were now in such condition that he could go back to harvard for a third year with professor baker .
that third year he wrote plays with a fury .
i think i'm right in that figure .
later this play would be called welcome to our city .
that spring welcome to our city was selected for production by the 47 workshop and it was staged in the middle of may .
it ran until past one o'clock .
it was demonstrated , many critics would later point out , in the length of his novels .
tom never knew how to condense , to boil down .
he wanted nothing compressed , tight .
he despised parsimony , and particularly of words .
in describing it to professor baker after it had been chosen for production , he defended his great array of characters by declaring that he had included that many not because `` i didn't know how to save paint '' , but because the play required them .
he said he would do it , though probably nobody would produce it , for his own `` soul's ease and comfort '' .
instead , he went down to new york and submitted welcome to our city to the theatre guild , which had asked him to let them have a look at it after professor baker had recommended it highly .
on returning to new york he had a job for several weeks ; ;
the graham memorial would be the campus student union honoring the late and much beloved edward kidder graham , who had been president when tom entered the university .
but they would reconsider it , they assured him , if he would rewrite it .
this man , tom said , had the play shut up in his desk , i believe , and when tom sat down , he pulled it out and apologetically told tom that they wouldn't be able to use it .
the man , tom said , explained that it was not only too long and detailed but that as it stood it wasn't the sort of thing the public wanted .
it was fantastic writing , beautiful writing , the man declared , but the public , he insisted , wanted realism .
such a revision , he said , would ruin it , would change his whole conception of the play as well as the treatment .
it was not until we had returned to the city to live , while i was still at brown and sharpe's , that i felt the full impact of evangelical christianity .
the spirit of this group was that we were -- and are -- living in a world doomed to eternal punishment , but that god through jesus christ has provided a way of escape for those who confess their sins and accept salvation .
this group in park place church was made up of the earnest few .
i engaged more and more in religious activities .
i went to an afternoon service at the aj .
much of this lacked the active support of the pastor .
once or twice my father asked me if i wasn't overdoing a bit in my churchgoing .
at least i had been unable to lay hold on the experience of conversion .
finally , after years , i gave up .
i was familiar with pilgrim's progress , which i read as literature .
there is , of course , the doctrine of original sin , which asserts that each of us as individuals partakes of the guilt of our first ancestor .
this doctrine was repugnant to my moral sense .
and the doctrine of original sin is compounded of injustice .
the actual impelling force which severed me from evangelical effort was of another sort .
i found myself becoming one of that group of people who , in carlyle's words , `` are forever gazing into their own navels , anxiously asking ' am i right , am i wrong ' '' ? ?
they have remained on the opened page of my mind in all the years which since have passed .
i do not claim to be free from sin , or from the need for repentance and forgiveness .
there was one further step in my religious progress .
his father was a professor at hartford theological seminary , and from him he acquired a conviction , which he passed along to me , that there is in the universe of persons a moral law , the law of love , which is a natural law in the same sense as is the physical law .
if obeyed , the law brings order and satisfaction .
as we observe moral law and physical law they appear as being inevitable .
their basis seems deeper than mere authority .
it is not the authority of god himself which makes them true .
deity and law are one and inseparable .
one's daily work becomes sacred , since it is performed in the field of influence of the moral law , dealing as it does with people as well as with matter and energy .
his ethics defines `` possessions as the property of the community , of which the individual is sovereign steward .
another by giving away his property in order to help his fellow man .
no one is to judge others '' .
for this decision a man must take personal responsibility .
or to let the ethical be superseded by the purposive .
schweitzer seems , in fact , to acquire for himself a burden of sin , not bequeathed by adam , but accumulated in the inevitable judgments which life requires of him as between greater and lesser responsibilities .
perhaps it should have .
an uncompromising belief in the moral law has the advantage of making religion natural , even as physical law is natural .
to obey the moral law is just ordinary common sense , applied to a neglected field .
this truth that the moral law is natural has other important corollaries .
in seeking for such meaning and purpose , albert schweitzer seized upon the concept of the `` sacredness of life '' .
these lives are in themselves outside of the moral order and are unburdened with moral responsibility .
so far as `` sacredness '' inheres in any aspect of creation it seems to me to be found in human personality , whether in lambarene , africa , or in washington , d.c. .
read , for instance , in malcolm macdonald's borneo people of segura and her wise father tomonggong koh , and her final adjustment to encroaching civilization .
the australian aborigine is the conventional exemplar of degraded humanity ; ;
persons , whether white , black , brown or yellow , are a concern of god .
such is the field for exercising our reverence .
with the knowledge that the kingdom comes by obedience to the moral law in our relations with all people , we have a firm intellectual grasp on both the means and the ends of our lives .
as i have said , words from tennyson remain ever in my memory : `` that mind and soul , according well , may make one music as before '' .
when the young biologist , dr. ballard , began to show interest in our daughter elizabeth , this induced a corresponding interest , on our part , in him .
he told me that he had a big newt and a little newt and that he was transplanting a big eye of the big newt onto the little newt and a little eye of the little newt onto the big newt .
then i asked , `` what does that teach you '' ? ?
this was a profound statement .
wonder is indeed the intellectual gateway to the spiritual world .
for them only a little more needed to be learned , and then all physical knowledge could be neatly sorted , packaged and put in the inventory to be drawn on for the solution of any human problem .
none of these discoveries were neatly rounded off bits of knowledge .
it is as if we , in our center of human observation , from time to time penetrate more deeply into the unknown .
wonder grows .
there are some people , intelligent people , who seem to be untouched by the sea of wonder in which we are immersed and in which we spend our lives .
this is a straightforward denial of the spiritual world and a vigorous defense of pure materialism .
the subject of immortality brings to mind a vivid incident which took place in 1929 at montreux in switzerland .
i have chosen five contrasting pairs , ten men in all , and they are arranged in roughly chronological order .
altogether , the list will give us considerable variety in attitudes and some typical ones , for these critics range all the way from censors to those who consider art above ethics , all the way from plato to poe .
stephen gosson and sir philip sidney from renaissance england ; ;
and james russell lowell and edgar allan poe of nineteenth century american letters .
plato and aristotle agree on some vital literary issues .
while aristotle censors literature only for the young , plato would banish all poets from his ideal state .
all through the republic , plato attends to the way art relates to the general life and ultimately to a good life for his citizens .
when he discusses the subject matter of poetry , he asks what moral effect the scenes will have .
he explains that his citizens must not be corrupted by any of the misrepresentations of the gods or heroes that one finds in much poetry , and he observes that all `` these pantomimic gentlemen '' will be sent to another state .
plato is , at times , just as suspicious of the poets themselves as he is of their work .
but the most fundamental objection he has to poets appears in the tenth book , and it is derived from his doctrine of ideal forms .
true reality , of course , is the ideal , and the poet knows nothing of this ; ;
poets , moreover , dwell on human passions .
the same sort of thinking plays so large a part in both babbitt and more , that we must examine it in some detail .
we can be virtuous only if we control our lower natures , the passions in this case , and strengthen our rational side ; ;
for this reason , then , poetry tends to weaken the power of control , the reason , because it tempts one to indulge his passions , and even the best of men , he maintains , may be corrupted by this subtle influence .
his whole objection , indeed , seems to rise out of a deep conviction that the poets do have great power to influence , but plato seldom pays any attention to what might be called the poem itself .
he wants them to use their great power to strengthen man's rational side , to teach virtue , and to encourage religion .
he even calls upon the poets to defend the muse and to show that poetry may contribute to virtue .
we may further grant to those of her ( poetry's ) defenders who are lovers of poetry and yet not poets , the permission to speak in prose on her behalf : let them show not only that she is pleasant but also useful to states and to human life , and we will listen in a kindly spirit ; ;
when we turn to aristotle's ideas on the moral measure of literature , it is at once apparent that he is at times equally concerned about the influence of the art .
for this reason , he would banish indecent pictures and speeches from the stage ; ;
by the time they reach that age , however , aristotle no longer worries about the evil influence of comedies .
he assures us , early in the poetics , that all art is `` imitation '' and that all imitation gives pleasure , but he distinguishes between art in general and poetic art on the basis of the means , manner , and the objects of the imitation .
a tragedy , by his definition , is an imitation of an action that is serious , of a certain magnitude , and complete in itself .
any tragedy , he maintains , has six elements : plot , character , and thought ( the objects of imitation ) , diction and melody ( the means of imitation ) , and spectacle ( the manner of imitation ) .
aristotle's method in the poetics , then , does suggest that we should isolate the work .
but there are , however , several features of aristotle's approach which open the way for the moral measure of literature .
in addition , his definition of a tragedy invites our attention , because a serious and important action may very well be one that tests the moral fiber of the author or of the characters .
he rejects certain plots because they do not contribute to that end .
in his study samuel johnson , joseph wood krutch takes this line when he says that what aristotle really means by his theory of catharsis is that our evil passions may be so purged by the dramatic ritual that it is `` less likely that we shall indulge them through our own acts '' .
and we can add that krutch's interpretation of purgation is also one answer to plato's fear that poetry will encourage our passions .
it may allay our passions and so restore the rule of reason .
gosson and sidney
no one suggested that the ethical effects of the art were irrelevant .
both sides claimed that plato and aristotle supported their cause .
the most famous document that comes out of this dispute is perhaps sir philip sidney's an apologie for poetrie , published in 1595 .
what is not so well known , however , and what is quite important for understanding the issues of this early quarrel , is the kind of attack on literature that sidney was answering .
second , we will see how sidney answered the charges , for while sidney's essay was not specifically a reply to gosson , his arguments do support the new theater .
aroused by what they considered an evil influence , some members of the clergy , joined by city authorities , merchants , and master craftsmen , began the attack on the plays and the actors for what they called `` the abuses of the art '' , but by 1582 some of them began to denounce the whole idea of acting .
with that act of parliament the opponents of the stage won the day , and for more than two decades after that england had no legitimate public drama .
but his opposition hardened and by 1579 , in the school of abuse , he was ready to banish all `` players '' .
he does not really approve of levity and laughter , but sex is the deadly sin .
but it would not be very satisfactory to leave our conclusions at the point just reached .
for this purpose we now draw upon data from sociological and psychological studies of students in american colleges and universities , and particularly from the cornell values studies .
of the latter sample , 944 persons had been studied two years earlier ; ;
in addition , the 1952 study collected comparable data from 4,585 students at ten other colleges and universities scattered across the country : dartmouth , harvard , yale , wesleyan , north carolina , fisk , texas , university of california at los angeles , wayne , and michigan .
it is not our impression that these evaluations are naively uncritical resultants of blissful ignorance ; ;
students are approximately equally divided between those who regard vocational preparation as the primary goal of an ideal education and those who chose a general liberal education .
the ideal of a liberal education impresses itself upon the students more and more as they move through college .
in the university milieu of scholarship and research , of social diversity , of new ideas and varied and wide-ranging interests , `` socialization '' into a campus culture apparently means heightened appreciation of the idea of a liberal education in the arts and sciences .
there is a clear relationship between their educational evaluations and their basic pattern of general values .
the same patterned consistency shows itself in occupational choices .
and , contrary to many popular assertions , the goal-values chosen do not seem to us to be primarily oriented to materialistic success nor to mere conformity .
they also want money , prestige , and security .
they set limits to their aspirations -- few aspire to millions of dollars or to `` imperial '' power and glory .
occupational choices are also useful -- and interesting -- in bringing out clearly that values do not constitute the only component in goals and aspirations .
we find `` reluctant recruits '' whose values are not in line with their expected occupation's characteristics .
the purely cognitive or informational problems are often acute .
thus , many a creativity-oriented aspirant for a career in architecture , drama , or journalism , resigns himself to a real estate business ; ;
and many a hopeful incipient business executive decides it were better to teach the theory of business administration than to practice it .
in their views on dating , courtship , sex , and family life , our students prefer what they are expected to prefer .
their expressed standards concerning sex roles , desirable age for marriage , characteristics of an ideal mate , number of children desired are congruent with the values and stereotypes of the preceding generation -- minus compulsive rebellion .
`` conservatism '' and `` traditionalism '' seem implied by what has just been said .
in the field of political values , it is certainly true that students are not radical , not rebels against their parents or their peers .
yet they have accepted most of the extant `` welfare state '' provisions for health , security , and the regulation of economic affairs , and they overwhelmingly approve of the traditional `` liberalism '' of the bill of rights .
the students who are most willing to acquiesce in the suppression of civil liberties are also those who are most likely to be prejudiced against minority groups , to be conformist and traditionalistic in general social attitudes , and to lack a basic faith in people .
but the correlation is substantial only among upperclassmen .
college in gross -- just the general experience -- may have varying effects , but the students who are successful emerge with strengthened and clarified democratic values .
there is now substantial evidence from several major studies of college students that the experience of the college years results in a certain , selective homogenization of attitudes and values .
furthermore , in certain respects , there are norms common to colleges and universities across the country .
the interesting thing in this connection is that the norms upon which students tend to converge include toleration of diversity .
our data indicate that these students of today do basically accept the existing institutions of the society , and , in the face of the realities of complex and large-scale economic and political problems , make a wary and ambivalent delegation of trust to those who occupy positions of legitimized responsibility for coping with such collective concerns .
although we have no measures of its strength or intensity , the heritage of the doctrine of inalienable rights is retained .
in this sense also , they are surely conformists .
but the extent of ethical robotism is easily overestimated .
and it may be well to recall that to say `` conformity '' is , in part , another way of saying `` orderly human society '' .
their commitments are , for the most part , couched in a familiar idiom .
avowed atheists or freethinkers are so rare as to be a curiosity .
at the same time , a major proportion of these young men and women see religion as a means of personal adjustment , an anchor for family life , a source of emotional security .
the `` cult of adjustment '' does exist .
still another segment of the student population consists of those who seek , in what they regard as religion , intellectual clarity , rational belief , and ethical guidance and reinforcement .
upon second thought we were forced to realize that we have very few reliable historical benchmarks against which we might compare the present situation , and that conclusions that present-day students are `` more '' or `` less '' religious could not be defended on the basis of our data .
but , here again , comparative benchmarks are lacking , and we do not know , in any case , what measure of profoundity and intensity to expect from healthy , young , secure and relatively inexperienced persons ; ;
nor are optimistic and socially-oriented themes at all rare in the distinctive religious history of this country .
a variety of data are assembled to bear upon such alleged changes as diminished puritan morality , work-success ethic , individualism , achievement , lessened emphasis on future-time orientation in favor of sociability , moral relativism , consideration and tolerance , conformity , hedonistic present-time orientation .
from new jersey , morgan hastened to the headquarters of washington at whitemarsh , pennsylvania , arriving there on november 18th .
morgan himself had sciatica again .
on the morning of november 17th , cornwallis and 2,000 men had left philadelphia with the object of capturing fort mercer at red bank , new jersey .
although the fort was evacuated in the face of the force of cornwallis , morgan and his men did have a chance to take another swing at the redcoats .
`` i never saw men '' , lafayette declared in regard to the riflemen , `` so merry , so spirited , and so desirous to go on to the enemy , whatever force they might have , as that small party in this fight '' .
a few days later it was learned that general howe was planning an attack upon the american camp .
here the pennsylvania militia skirmished with the british , but soon fled .
similar orders were given to the maryland militia .
a body of redcoats were seen marching down a nearby slope , a tempting target for the riflemen , who threw a volley into their ranks and `` messed up '' the smart formation considerably .
the redcoats ran like rabbits .
the british , although suffering considerable losses , noted the defection of the marylanders , made a stand , then turned and attacked morgan who became greatly outnumbered and had to retire .
the latter was so upset on learning of the death of morris , that he wrote morgan a letter , showing his own warmhearted generosity .
`` as mrs. morris may be in some want before that time '' , lafayette continued , `` i am going to trouble you with a commission which i beg you will execute with the greatest secrecy .
but you could ( as from yourself ) tell her that you had friends who , being with the army , don't know what to do with their money and would willingly let her have one or many thousand dollars '' .
apparently still sensitive about the idea with which general gates had approached him at saratoga , namely , that george washington be replaced , morgan was vehement in his support of the commander-in-chief during the campaign around philadelphia .
morgan hotly denied this and informed the board of war that the men in camp linked the name of peters with the plot against washington .
such a situation regarding the board of war could hardly have helped morgan's chances for promotion when that matter came before the group later on .
the position of the new camp was admirably selected and well fortified , its easily defensible nature being one good reason why howe did not attack it .
in order to see that this hindering situation remained effective , washington detached several bodies of his troops to the periphery of the philadelphia area .
the headquarters of morgan was on a farm , said to have been particularly well located so as to prevent the farmers nearby from trading with the british , a practice all too common to those who preferred to sell their produce for british gold rather than the virtually worthless continental currency .
for example , he captured some persons from york county , who with teams were taking to philadelphia the furniture of a man who had just been released from prison through the efforts of his wife , and who apparently was helpless to prevent the theft of his household goods .
morgan complained to washington about the men detailed to him for scouting duty , most of them he said being useless .
if the hardships of the winter at valley forge were trying for healthy men , they were , of course , much more so for those not in good health .
he had braved the elements and the enemy , but the strain , aided by the winter , was catching up with him at last .
the mild activity of his command during the sojourn of the troops at valley forge could be handled by a subordinate , he felt , so like henry knox , equally loyal to washington , who went to boston at this time , morgan received permission to visit his home in virginia for several weeks .
but morgan did not leave before he had written a letter to a william pickman in salem , massachusetts , apparently an acquaintance , praising washington and saying that the slanders propagated about him were `` opposed by the general current of the people to exalt general gates at the expense of general washington was injurious to the latter .
it is doubtful if morgan was able to take home much money to his wife and children , for his pay , as shown by the war department abstracts of early 1778 was $75 a month as a colonel , and that apt to be delayed .
his neighbors celebrated his return , even if it was only temporary , and morgan was especially gratified by the quaint expression of an elderly friend , isaac lane , who told him , `` a man that has so often left all that is dear to him , as thou hast , to serve thy country , must create a sympathetic feeling in every patriotic heart '' .
his fellow virginian , george washington , had stated , `` i believe no event was ever received with more heartfelt joy '' .
even the dignified washington indulged in a game of wickets with some children .
on may 6th , morgan , who had returned , received from washington orders to `` send out patrols under vigilant officers '' to keep near the enemy .
the troops must have more than the common quantity of liquor , and perhaps there will be some little drunkenness among them '' .
the frenchman had been ordered to approach the enemy's lines , harass them and get intelligence of their movements .
these were oneida indians .
obviously the commander-in-chief had confidence that morgan would furnish him good intelligence too , for on the 23rd of may , he told morgan that the british were prepared to move , perhaps in the night , and asked morgan to have two of his best horses ready to dispatch to general smallwood with the intelligence obtained .
colonel benjamin ford wrote to morgan from wilmington that he understood a mrs. sanderson from maryland had obtained permission from smallwood to visit philadelphia , and would return on may 26th , escorted by several officers from maryland `` belonging to the new levies in the british service '' .
morgan took the suggested steps , but when mrs. sanderson appeared , there was nobody with her but her husband , whom he promptly sent to headquarters to be questioned .
a letter of a few days later from washington's aide to morgan stated , `` his excellency is highly pleased with your conduct upon this occasion '' .
even so , edward's ambassadors can scarcely have foreseen that five years of unremitting work lay ahead of them before peace was finally made and that when it did come the countless embassies that left england for rome during that period had very little to do with it .
nogaret is hardly an impartial witness , and even he did not make his charges against boniface until the latter was dead , but there is some truth in what he said and more in what he did not say .
the pope was playing a dangerous game , with so many balls in the air at once that a misstep would bring them all about his ears , and his only hope was to temporize so that he could take advantage of every change in the delicate balance of european affairs .
if his circumspection in regard to philip's sensibilities went so far that he even refused to grant a dispensation for the marriage of amadee's daughter , agnes , to the son of the dauphin of vienne -- a truly peacemaking move according to thirteenth-century ideas , for savoy and dauphine were as usual fighting on opposite sides -- for fear that he might seem to be favoring the anti-french coalition , he would certainly never take the far more drastic step of ordering the return of gascony to edward , even though , as he admitted to the english ambassadors , he had been advised that the original cession was invalid .
on the surface , the whole question was purely feudal .
but edward was invading scotland for precisely the same reason , and his insubordinate vassal was the ally of the king of france .
because of these involvements in the matter at stake , boniface lacked the impartiality that is supposed to be an essential qualification for the position of arbiter , and in retrospect that would seem to be sufficient reason why the english embassies to the curia proved so fruitless .
this was boniface's monumental tactlessness .
he was a learned and brilliant man , one of the best jurists in europe and with flashes of penetrating insight , and yet in his dealings with other people , particularly when he tried to be ingratiating , he was capable of an abysmal stupidity that can have come only from a complete incomprehension of human nature and human motives .
they had risen from humble beginnings by their own diligence and astuteness , they were unfettered by the codes that bound nobles like othon or even the older generation of clerks like hotham , and they were working for an end that their opponents had never even visualized .
it was the clerks who caused the mischief and who made him say that the ruling passion of their race was covetousness and that in dealing with them he never knew whether he had to do with a frenchman or with a devil .
and yet he made no pretense about it ; ;
do you want to drive the king of england from all his overseas possessions '' ? ?
loyal and unscrupulous , with a single-minded ambition to which he devoted all his energies , he outmatched the english diplomats time and time again until , by a kind of poetic justice , he fell at the battle of courtrai , the victim of the equally nationalistic if less articulate flemings .
the scots had found a new leader in william wallace , and edward's yearly expeditions across the border called for evermounting taxes , which only increased his difficulties with the barons and the clergy .
the defeat and death of adolf of nassau at the hands of albert of habsburg also worked to the disadvantage of the english , for all the efforts to revive the anti-french coalition came to nothing when philip made an alliance with the new king of the romans .
in spite of the armistice negotiated by amadee two years earlier , the war between bishop guillaume of lausanne and louis of savoy was still going on , and although little is known about it , that little proves that it was yet another phase of the struggle against french expansion and was closely interwoven with the larger conflict .
but although in many of these discussions othon and amadee might have been tempted to consider their own interests as well as those of the king , edward's confidence in them was so absolute that they were made the acknowledged leaders of the embassy .
the younger men , vere , and pembroke , who was also edward's cousin and whose lusignan blood gave him the swarthy complexion that caused edward of carnarvon's irreverent friend , piers gaveston , to nickname him `` joseph the jew '' , were relatively new to the game of diplomacy , but pontissara had been on missions to rome before , and hotham , a man of great learning , `` jocund in speech , agreeable to meet , of honest religion , and pleasing in the eyes of all '' , and an archbishop to boot , was as reliable and experienced as othon himself .
this also gave them the unpleasant duty of being spokesmen for the mission , and they could foresee that that would not be easy .
this was a doubly bitter blow to the king .
bad relations between england and flanders brought hard times to the shepherds scattered over the dales and downs as well as to the crowded flemish cities , and while the english , so far , had done no more than grumble , othon had seen what the discontent might lead to , for before he left the low countries the citizens of ghent had risen in protest against the expense of supporting edward and his troops , and the regular soldiers had found it unexpectedly difficult to put down the nasty little riot that ensued .
these chatty merchants made amusing and instructive traveling companions , for their business took them to all four corners of the globe , and florentine gossip had already reached a high stage of development as even a cursory glance at the inferno will prove .
they had other topics of conversation , besides their news from courts and fairs , which were of interest to othon , the builder of castles in wales and churches in his native country .
the low countries , where the middle ages were to last for another two centuries and die out only when charles the bold of burgundy met his first defeat in the fields and forests below the walls of grandson .
alfred wanted to invest in my father's hotel and advance enough money to build a larger place .
my father would have done it if it hadn't been for my mother , who had a fear of being in debt to anyone -- even alfred alpert .
they had my mother's opinion of him : that he was too sharp or a little too good to be true .
i don't know how and i don't know why but the two stores , the one in margaretville and the one in fleischmanns that had been set up as a partnership , were dissolved , separated from each other .
alfred , who was a good deal older than harry , had treated him like a son , and when harry decided to stay in business with lew instead of going with alfred , alfred looked on the decision as a betrayal .
the six miles between the towns became an ocean and the alperts became a family of strangers .
i became fifteen , sixteen , then twenty , and still tessie alpert sat on the porch with a rose in her hair , and alfred got richer and sicker with diabetes .
they were like two strangers .
tessie , everybody thought , was a strong woman , but she was only strong because she had alfred to lean on .
tessie could do nothing for alfred .
instead she waited for alfred to get better and take care of her .
alfred knew that , too .
alfred began to put his affairs in order , and he went about it like a man putting his things into storage .
one day alfred told him that he had decided to leave everything to me .
he knew alfred liked me ; ;
by leaving me everything he wouldn't be doing me a favor , my father told him , and he didn't want to see his daughter involved in a lawsuit .
alfred was getting too sick to stay in his own home .
the nearest one was forty miles away in kingston .
he sent me for meltzer the butcher , whom he wanted not as a friend but as a rabbi .
solemnly he walked me back to alfred's house without a word passing between us .
i sat down to wait , and i watched tessie alpert , who hadn't moved or said a word but kept staring out of the window .
then meltzer's voice , quiet , calm , strong , started the kaddish , the prayer for the dead .
there was a finality in the rhythm of the prayer -- it was the end of a life , the end of hope , and the wondering if there would ever be another beginning .
alfred was dressed for his trip to the hospital .
alfred , leaning on meltzer , stopped for a minute to look at tessie .
alfred nodded a little nod and went out through the door .
alfred walked past him without a word and got into the car .
alfred looked straight ahead .
alfred ! !
but the car moved off and alfred just looked straight ahead .
he stood there watching until it had gone from his sight .
the first time i went there he asked me to bring him water from flagler's well -- water that reminded him of his first days in the mountains -- and before i came the next time i filled a five-gallon jug for him and brought it to the hospital .
the jug stayed at the hospital and the water -- what can happen to water ? ?
12 `` where is it written '' ? ?
meltzer was a boarder with the banks family .
he was a learned man and a very gentle soul .
he knew the whyfores and the wherefores but he was weak , very weak , on the therefores .
so meltzer learned a new trade from banks , who supplied the town and the hotels with meat .
the daughter , lilly , was a very good friend of mine and i always had hopes that someday she and meltzer would find each other .
banks the butcher was a hard master and a hard father , a man who didn't seem to know the difference between the living flesh of his family and the hanging carcasses of his stock in trade .
perhaps he was a little more sympathetic to the sides of beef that hung silently from his hooks .
she was the opposite of everything she should have been -- a positive pole in a negative home , a living reaction of warmth and kindness to the harsh reality of her father .
her brother karl was a very gentle soul , her mother was a quiet woman who said little but who had hard , probing eyes .
every chance i got i left the hotel to visit lilly .
she had to clean the glass on the display cases in the butcher shop , help her brother scrub the cutting tables with wire brushes , mop the floors , put down new sawdust on the floors and help check the outgoing orders .
i helped lilly in the store .
i wanted to help so that we could find time to play .
when the work was finished , we would walk .
it ran north , away from the town and the people , through woods and past the nothingness of a graveyard .
i would have liked the town and the busyness of its people but i always followed lilly into the peace of the silent and unstaring road .
to me lilly was a fine and lovely girl .
she had the hips of a boy and a loose-jointed walk that reminded me of a string of beads strolling down the street .
it was unexpected , unexpected because lilly walked with her head bent down , down , and her mark of friendship was to look into your face .
childishness compared to her grown-up understanding that life was a punishment for as yet undisclosed sins .
when we went for our walks lilly's brother would come along every once in a while .
this huge hulk played the guitar and he would take it along on our walks and play for us as we sat alone in the woods or by the stream .
he spoke no german but he could sing it and the words of the song were the only ones he knew in a foreign language .
later , when i was older , i found the song was part of schubert's die schone mullerin .
the brother and sister seemed to be a sort of mutual-aid society , a little fortress of kindness for each other in a hard world .
the turn of the century , or to be more precise , the two decades preceeding and following it , marks a great change in the history of early english scholarship .
in archaeology , for example , the contributions of frederick haverfield and reginald smith to the various volumes of the victoria county histories raised the discipline from the status of an antiquarian pastime to that of the most valuable single tool of the early english historian .
what was true for archaeology was also true of place-name studies .
place-names , in fact , had been extensively utilized for this purpose from the time of camden onwards .
even in the nineteenth century such accomplished philologists as kemble and guest were led into what now seem ludicrous errors because of their failure to recognize that modern forms of place names are not necessarily the result of logical philological development .
diplomatic is another area for which the dawn of the twentieth century marks the beginning of modern standards of scholarship .
in sum , it can be said that the techniques and standards of present day have their origin at the turn of the century .
almost inevitably , the first result of this technological revolution was a reaction against the methods and in many cases the conclusions of the oxford school of stubbs , freeman and ( particularly ) green regarding the nature of the anglo-saxon conquest of britain .
charles plummer in the introduction and notes to his splendid edition of bede voiced some early doubts concerning the `` elaborate superstructure '' they raised up over the slim foundations afforded by the traditional narratives of the conquest .
sir henry howorth , writing in 1898 , put himself firmly in the lappenburg-kemble tradition by attacking the veracity of the west saxon annals .
following him in varying degrees of scepticism were t.w. shore , h.m. chadwick , thomas hodgkin and f. g. beck .
'' it is also worthy of note that lot cited both kemble and lappenberg with favor in that article .
in fact , modern scholarly opinion in the main has not retreated all the way back to the destructive scepticism of the first half of the nineteenth century .
most now admit that bede , gildas , nennius and the anglo-saxon chronicles cannot be the infallible guides to early english history that guest , freeman and green thought them to be .
on the other hand , the consensus of opinion is that , used with caution and in conjunction with other types of evidence , the native sources still provide a valid rough outline for the english settlement of southern britain .
therefore , in one way kemble and lappenberg have been vindicated .
nevertheless , in another way modern historians still labor in the vineyard of the oxford school .
despite the rejection of the traditional accounts on many points of detail , as late as 1948 it was still possible to postulate a massive and comparatively sudden ( beginning in ca. 450 ) influx of germans as the type of invasions .
they , however much they were in disagreement with the late victorians over the method by which britain was germanized , agreed with them that the end result was the complete extinction of the previous celtic population and civilization .
against seebohm formidable foes have taken the field , notably f. w. maitland , whose domesday book and beyond was written expressly for this purpose , and sir paul vinogradoff whose the growth of the manor had a similar aim .
h.l. gray in his english field systems and zachrisson's romans , kelts and saxons defended in part the seebohm thesis while at the present time h.p.r. finberg and gordon copley seem to fall into the celtic survivalist camp .
most scholars , while willing to accept a survival ( revival ? ?
therefore , it is plain that the clear distinctions of the nineteenth century are no longer with us .
they , in effect , have compromised the opposing positions of the nineteenth century .
as a group they should be favorable to a concept of gradual germanic infiltration although the specialist nature of much of their work , e.g. seebohm , gray and finberg , tends to obscure their sympathies .
wade-evans , in fact , denies that there were any anglo-saxon invasions at all other than a minor jutish foray in a.d. 514 .
it is no longer possible to say that a sceptical attitude towards the received accounts of the invasions almost automatically produces a `` shore occupied by '' interpretation .
one reason is , of course , that the new scepticism has been willing to maintain the general picture of the invasions as portrayed in the traditional sources .
moreover , they have done so in rather special circumstances .
again omitting recent developments , e.t. leeds' dictum of 1913 has stood unchallenged : `` so far as archaeology is concerned , there is not the least warrant for the second ( shore occupied by ) of these theories '' .
what they meant was that there was no evidence to show that the south and east coasts of britain received germanic settlers conspicuously earlier than some other parts of england .
in the face of a clear judgment from archaeology , therefore , it became impossible for a time for scholars to re-adopt the `` shore settled by '' theory .
the great increase in the amount of archaeological activity , and therefore information , in the years immediately preceeding and following the second world war has brought to light data which has changed the complection of the saxon shore dispute .
we must , therefore , have a look at the new archaeological material and re-examine the literary and place-name evidence which bears upon the problem .
we know that the saxon shore was a phenonenon of late roman defensive policy ; ;
so whenever the romans finally withdrew from the island , the saxon shore disappeared in the first decade of the fifth century .
my argument is that there was no saxon shore prior to that time even though the forts had been in existence since the time of carausius .
that is , we must find saxons in east anglia , kent , sussex and hampshire in the last half of the fourth century .
in gaul the saxon element on its saxon shore was plainly visible because there the saxons were an intrusive element in the population .
it is a matter of trying to sort out an earlier fourth-century saxon element from the later , fifth-century mainstream of anglo-saxon invasions .
it might be well to consider the literary evidence first because it can provide us with an answer to one important question ; ;
to do so , something was necessary beyond volunteering because there was little glamour or romance in the european war ; ;
baker gave leonard wood credit for the initiation of the draft of soldiers ; ;
wood took the proposal to chief of staff hugh l. scott , who passed it on to baker a month before the actual declaration of war against germany .
he concluded that selective service would not only prevent the disorganization of essential war industries but would avoid the undesirable moral effects of the british reliance on enlistment only -- `` where the feeling of the people was whipped into a frenzy by girls pinning white feathers on reluctant young men , orators preaching hate of the germans , and newspapers exaggerating enemy outrages to make men enlist out of motives of revenge and retaliation '' .
start to prepare the necessary legislation so that if i am obliged to go to congress the bills will be ready for immediate consideration '' .
before the draft act was passed baker had confidentially briefed governors , sheriffs , and prospective draft board members on the administration of the measure -- and the confidence was kept so well that only one newspaper learned what was going on .
general crowder proposed that regular army officers select the draftees in cities and towns throughout the nation ; ;
even so , the draft act encountered rough sledding in its progress through the congress .
democrat stanley h. dent , chairman of the house military affairs committee , declined to introduce the bill .
in the judgment of chief of staff scott it was ironic that the draft policy of a democratic president , aimed at germany , had to be pushed through the house of representatives by the ranking minority member of the military affairs committee -- a republican jew born in germany ! !
after kahn's death in 1924 scott wrote : `` may he rest in peace with the eternal gratitude of his adopted country '' .
in early june ten million young men registered by name and number .
on july 20 , the first drawing of numbers occurred in the senate office building before a distinguished group of congressmen and high army officers .
it was 258 .
he was the first of 2,800,000 called to the army through the selective service system .
it was another to house , feed , and train them .
in a matter of months the war department built thirty-two camps , each one accommodating fifty thousand men -- sixteen were under canvas in the south and sixteen with frame structures in the north .
a typical cantonment in the north had twelve hundred buildings , an electric-sewer-water system , and twenty-five miles of roads .
the total operation was a construction project comparable in magnitude with the panama canal , but in 1917 time was in short supply ; ;
in later years josephus daniels was to claim that world war 1 , was the first in american history in which there was great concern for both the health and morals of our soldiers .
to the middle of september 1918 , there had been fewer than 10,000 deaths from disease in the new army .
it was the influenza pandemic of 1918-19 .
the world-wide total of deaths from `` spanish flu '' was around twenty million ; ;
in mid-september 1918 , the influenza-pneumonia pandemic swept through every american military camp ; ;
in spite of this catastrophe the final mortality figure from disease in the american army during world war 1 , was 15 per 1,000 per year , contrasted with 110 per 1,000 per year in the mexican war , and 65 in the american civil war .
their policy ran counter to the traditional idea that a good fighter was usually a libertine , and that in sex affairs `` god-given passion '' was a proof of manliness .
six days after war was declared he appointed raymond fosdick chairman of the commission on training camp activities ( the ctca ) .
his assignment was not a new one because baker had sent him to the mexican border in 1916 to investigate lurid newspaper stories about lack of discipline , drunkenness , and venereal disease in american military camps .
he also ascertained that many officers were indifferent to the problem , including commanding general frederick funston who gave fosdick the nickname of `` reverend '' .
during the brief mexican venture fosdick's report to the secretary recommended a definite stand by the war department against the saloon and the excesses of prostitution .
fosdick insisted that a strong word was needed from washington , and it was immediately forthcoming .
both baker and fosdick knew that a substitute was necessary , that a verboten approach was not the real answer .
both knew that when trains stopped at texan crossroads bored soldiers would sometimes enter to ask the passengers if they had any reading material to spare , even a newspaper .
when the united states entered the first world war baker made certain that the draft act of 1917 prohibited the sale of liquor to men in uniform and that it provided for broad zones around the camps in which prostitution was outlawed .
new orleans had a notorious red-light district extending over twenty-eight city blocks , and the business-minded mayor of the city journeyed to washington to present the case for `` the god-given right of men to be men '' .
when fosdick showed the letter to baker his negative response was : `` for god's sake , raymond , don't show this to the president or he'll stop the war '' .
the result was that the rate of venereal disease in the american army was the lowest in our military history .
affirmatively baker worked on the premise that `` young men spontaneously prefer to be decent , and that opportunities for wholesome recreation are the best possible cure for irregularities in conduct which arise from idleness and the baser temptations '' .
over these voluntary agencies , in 1917-18 , the ctca served as a co-ordinating body in carrying out what survey called `` the most stupendous piece of social work in modern times '' .
from the point of view of popularity the best-known member of the commission was walter camp , the yale athlete whose sobriquet was `` the father of american football '' .
the ctca program of activities was profuse : william farnum and mary pickford on the screen , elsie janis and harry lauder on the stage , books provided by the american library association , full equipment for games and sports -- except that no `` bones '' were furnished for the all-time favorite pastime played on any floor and known as `` african golf '' .
in the imagination of the nineteenth century the greek tragedians and shakespeare stand side by side , their affinity transcending all the immense contrarieties of historical circumstance , religious belief , and poetic form .
but we abide by their insight .
the sense of relationship overreaches the historical truth that shakespeare may have known next to nothing of the actual works of aeschylus , sophocles , and euripides .
it overcomes our emphatic awareness of the vast difference in the shape and fabric of the two languages and styles of dramatic presentation .
comparable visions of life are at work in antigone and romeo and juliet .
elsinore seems to lie in a range of mycenae , and the fate of orestes resounds in that of hamlet .
oedipus and lear attain similar insights by virtue of similar blindness .
it is after the late seventeenth century .
the image of man which enters into force with aeschylus is still vital in phedre and athalie .
shakespeare is closer to sophocles than he is to pope and voltaire .
but it is true , nevertheless .
it is only then that the ancient habits of feeling and the classic orderings of material and psychological experience were abandoned .
in greek tragedy as in shakespeare , mortal actions are encompassed by forces which transcend man .
the weird sisters wait for the soul of macbeth .
the shadows cast by the personages of greek and shakespearean drama lengthen into a greater darkness .
the thunderclaps over the sacred wood at colonus and the storms in king lear are caused by more than weather .
but it can no longer be so once benjamin franklin ( the incarnation of the new rational man ) has flown a kite to it .
those who walk on it may encounter at any turn ministers of grace or damnation .
mortality is the pacing of a brief and dangerous watch , and to all sentinels , whether at elsinore or on the battlements at mycenae , the coming of dawn has its breath of miracle .
but at the touch of hume and voltaire the noble or hideous visitations which had haunted the mind since agamemnon's blood cried out for vengeance , disappeared altogether or took tawdry refuge among the gaslights of melodrama .
in athens , in shakespeare's england , and at versailles , the hierarchies of worldly power were stable and manifest .
from it , spokes of order and degree led to the outward rim of the common man .
its sphere is that of royal courts , dynastic quarrels , and vaulting ambitions .
and the fate of such men has tragic relevance because it is public .
similarly the sufferings of hamlet , othello , or phedre engage the fortunes of the state .
hence the natural setting of tragedy is the palace gate , the public square , or the court chamber .
princes and factions clashed in the open street and died on the open scaffold .
the art of defoe and richardson is founded on an awareness of this great change .
behind the tragic hero stands the chorus , the crowd , or the observant courtier .
in la nouvelle-heloise and werther tragedy is made intimate .
the novel was not only the presenter of the new , secular , rationalistic , private world of the middle class .
i have said before how difficult it is to make any precise statements with regard to the character of the greek and elizabethan public .
until the advent of rational empiricism the controlling habits of the western mind were symbolic and allegoric .
classic mythology and christianity are such architectures of the imagination .
there had not yet supervened between understanding and expression the new languages of mathematics and scientific formulas .
and in these organizations certain primal notions played a radiant part , radiant both in the sense of giving light and of being a pole toward which all perspectives converge .
i refer to the notion that the structure of society is a microcosm of the cosmic design and that history conforms to patterns of justice and chastisement as if it were a morality play set in motion by the gods for our instruction .
and although they were , as i have indicated , under increasing strain at the time of racine , they are still alive in his theatre .
they are as decisively present in the oresteia and oedipus as in macbeth , king lear , and phedre .
concepts such as grace , damnation , purgation , blasphemy , or the chain of being , which are everywhere implicit in classic and shakespearean tragedy , lose their vitality .
after shakespeare the master spirits of western consciousness are no longer the blind seers , the poets , or orpheus performing his art in the face of hell .
and their chroniclers are not the dramatic poets but the prose novelists .
they were not yet prepared to accept it as irremediable .
from this action sprang the idea of somehow uniting greek and shakespearean drama into a new total form , capable of restoring to life the ancient moral and poetic responses .
it could not really be fulfilled .
but the attempt itself produced a number of brilliant works , and these form a transition from the early romantic period to the new age of ibsen and chekhov .
his italian journey was a poet's version of those perennial thrusts across the alps of the german emperors of the middle ages .
goethe asks in wilhelm meister whether we know the land where the lemon trees flower , and the light of the mediterranean glows through torquato tasso and the roman elegies .
on the narrower ground of poetic form , he felt that in the drama of the future the greek conception of tragic fate should be joined to the shakespearean vision of tragic will .
the third act of faust 2 , is a formal celebration of the union between the germanic and the classic , between the spirit of euripides and that of romantic drama .
it tells us of the ancient human desire to see the highest wisdom joined to the highest sensual beauty .
it is thus that the brightness of helen passes through marlowe's faustus .
faust rescuing helen from menelaus' vengeance is the genius of renaissance europe restoring to life the classic tradition .
this translation , or rather the fusion of the two ideals , creates the gesamtkunstwerke , the `` total art form '' .
when quiney and william parsons wrote to greville in 1593 asking his consent in the election for bailiff , they sent the letter to mr. william sawnders , attendant on the worshipful mr. thomas bushell at marston .
thomas the elder married twice , had seventeen children , and died in 1615 .
his son thomas , aged fifteen when he entered oxford in 1582 , married as his first wife margaret , sister of sir edward greville .
a third thomas bushell ( 1594-1674 ) , `` much loved '' by bacon , called himself `` the superlative prodigall '' in the first part of youths errors ( 1628 ) and became an expert on silver mines and on the art of running into debt .
he refused his consent to the election of quiney as bailiff in 1592 , but gave it at the request of the recorder , his cousin sir fulke greville .
at milcote on november 3 , 1597 , the aldermen asked him to support their petition for a new charter .
greville proposed quiney as the fittest man `` for the following of the cause and to attend him in the matter '' , and at his suggestion the corporation allowed quiney two shillings a day .
in his letter mentioning shakespeare on january 24 , 1597/8 , sturley asked quiney especially that `` theare might ( be ) bi sir ed. grev. some meanes made to the knightes of the parliament for an ease and discharge of such taxes and subsedies wherewith our towne is like to be charged , and i assure u i am in great feare and doubte bi no meanes hable to paie .
the knights for warwickshire in this parliament , which ended its session on february 9 , were fulke greville ( the poet ) and william combe of warwick , as fulke greville and edward greville had been in 1593 .
he had been in london for several weeks when he wrote to shakespeare on october 25 .
allso that if monei might be had for 30 or 40 a lease & might be procured '' .
sturley thought that this matter might be `` the rest of the tithes and the college houses and landes in our towne '' .
this refers to what had happened after the earl of warwick died in 1590 , when the town petitioned burghley for the right to name the vicar and schoolmaster and other privileges but greville bought the lordship for himself .
adrian quiney wrote to his son richard on october 29 and again perhaps the next day , since the bearer of the letter , the bailiff , was expected to reach london on november 1 .
yff yow bargen with wm. sha. ( so in the ms ) or receave money ther or brynge your money home yow maye see howe knite stockynges be sold ther ys gret byinge of them at aysshom .
this seems to refer , not to the loan richard had asked for , but to a proposed bargain with shakespeare .
his mother bess , who could not write herself , reminded her husband through sturley to buy the apron he had promised her and `` a suite of hattes for 5 boies the yongst lined & trimmed with silke '' ( for john , only a year old ) .
william parsons and william walford , drapers , asked quiney to see to business matters in london .
his letter of october 26 named two of the men about whom quiney had written to shakespeare the day before .
& synce i did write unto him to dessier him to paie 10 for mee which standeth mee greatly uppon to have paide .
he asked quiney to find out whether the money had been paid and , if not , to send to the lodging of sir edward and entreat him to pay what he owed .
further letters in november mention that sir edward paid forty pounds .
the chancellor of the exchequer wrote on the petition : `` in myn opinion it is very resonable and conscionable for hir maiestie to graunt in relief of this towne twise afflicted and almost wasted by fire '' .
he listed what he had spent for `` my own diet in london eighteen weeks , in which i was sick a month ; ;
another i bought there to bring me home 7 weeks ; ;
all which cost me at the least 20 pounds '' .
if he borrowed money from shakespeare or with his help , he would now have been able to repay the loan .
during 1598 and 1599 he made `` manye guiftes of myne owne provision bestowed uppon cowrtiers & others for the better effectinge of our suites in hande '' .
when sir edward greville enclosed the town commons on the bancroft , quiney and others leveled his hedges on january 21 , 1600/1 , and were charged with riot by sir edward .
accompanied by `` master greene our solicitor '' ( thomas greene of the middle temple , shakespeare's `` cousin '' ) , quiney tried to consult sir edward coke , attorney general , and gave money to a clerk and a doorkeeper `` that we might have access to their master for his counsel butt colde nott have him att leasure by the reason of thees trobles '' ( the essex rising on february 8 ) .
after returning stratford he drew up a defense of the town's right to toll corn and the office of collecting it , and his list of suggested witnesses included his father and shakespeare's father .
quiney was in london again in june , 1601 , and in november , when he rode up , as shakespeare must often have done , by way of oxford , high wycombe , and uxbridge , and home through aylesbury and banbury .
asked by the townsmen to cease his suit , greville had answered that `` hytt shulde coste hym 500 first & sayed it must be tried ether before my lorde anderson in the countrey or his uncle ffortescue in the exchequer with whom he colde more prevaile then we '' .
lady greville , daughter of the late lord chancellor bromley and niece of sir john fortescue , was offered twenty pounds by the townsmen to make peace ; ;
his servant robin whitney threatened quiney , who had whitney bound to `` the good abaringe '' to keep the peace .
the fall of rome , the discovery of precious metals , and the protestant reformation were all links and could only be explained and understood by comprehending the links that preceded and those that followed .
unconsciously , governments or races or institutions may enter into some undertaking without fully realizing why they are doing so .
a court may strike down a law on the basis of an intuitive feeling that the law is inimical to the numerical majority .
when the historian encounters a situation in which he can perceive no visible cause and effect sequence , he should be alert to intuition and unconscious instinct as possible guides .
here was another indispensable tool .
the failure of greece to reach the imperial destiny that periclean athens had seemed to promise was almost directly attributable to her physical conformation .
brooks adams was consistent in his admonishments to historians about the necessary tools or insights they needed to possess .
in fact , if judgments are to be rendered upon the soundness of his historicism , they must be based on scanty evidence .
a credulousness , a distaste for documentation , an uncritical reliance on contemporary accounts , and a proneness to assume a theory as true before adequate proof was provided were all evidences of his failure to comprehend the use of the scientific method or to evaluate the responsibilities of the historian to his reading public .
his credulity is perhaps best illustrated in his introduction to the emancipation of massachusetts , which purports to examine the trials of moses and to draw a parallel between the leader of the israelite exodus from egypt and the leadership of the puritan clergy in colonial new england .
in light of the scholarly reappraisals engendered by the higher criticism this is a most remarkable statement , particularly coming from one who was well known for his antifundamentalist views .
a similar amateurish characteristic is revealed in adams' failure to check the accuracy and authenticity of his informational sources .
conversely , if statistics were uncovered which contradicted a cherished theory , the sources were denounced as faulty .
adams depended largely on the dispatches of foreign ambassadors and observers in england , claiming that the reports of such agents had to be accurate because there were no newspapers .
moreover , he rejects the contemporary accounts of englishmen , casually adjudging them to be distorted by prejudice because `` the opinions of englishmen are of no great value '' .
in all fairness it must be admitted that adams made no pretense at being an impartial historian .
he deplored the impact of german historiography on the writing of history , terming it a `` dismal monster '' .
brooks adams preferred the chronicles of froissart or the style and theorizing of edward gibbon , for at least they took a stand on the issues about which they wrote .
if the historian was convinced of his own correctness , then he should not allow his vision to become fogged by disturbing facts .
it was this basic trait that separated adams from the ranks of professional historians and led him to commit time and time again what was his most serious offense against the historical method -- namely , the tendency to assume the truth of an hypothesis before submitting it to the test of facts .
no page seems to be complete without the statement of at least one unproved generalization .
there is no explanation of terms nor a qualification that most such revolts have been dealt with by force -- only a bald dogmatism that they must , because of some undefined compulsion , be so repelled .
he cites the french revolution as typifying this rigidity but makes no mention of the italians , who have been able to adapt to all types of circumstances .
it made no difference that most evidence points to an opposite conclusion .
all critics of adams and his methods have observed this particular deficiency .
a. m. wergeland called the adams method literally antihistorical , while clive day maintained that the assumptions were not confined to theories alone but were also applicable to straight factual evidence .
even d. a. wasson , who compared the emancipation of massachusetts to the lifting of a fog from ancient landscapes , was also forced to admit the methodological deficiencies of the author .
moreover , he believed that most professional historians lacked some of the essential instruments for a proper study of history .
this should not prejudice an evaluation of his findings , but they were not the findings of a completely impartial investigator .
in the final analysis his contribution to american historiography was founded on almost intuitive insights into religion , economics , and darwinism , the three factors which conditioned his search for a law of history .
brooks adams considered religion as an extremely significant manifestation of man's fear of the unknown .
religion and the churches were institutions which had been created by man , not god .
he simply did not believe that a creator intervened or interfered in human affairs .
there was no evidence , either of a positive or negative type , of the actions of a divine being in this world ; ;
furthermore , he must regard religion as the expression of human forces .
adams was not breaking new ground when he claimed that the worship of an unseen power was in reality a reflection of man's inability to cope with his environment .
but adams was one of the first to suggest that this human incompetence was the only motivating factor behind religion .
to keep themselves entrenched in power , the priests were forced to demonstrate their unique status through the miracle .
the german barbarians of the fourth century offered an excellent example :
this intervention could only be controlled by priests , and thus the invasions caused a rapid rise in the influence of the sacred class .
adams contended that once such a special class had been created it became a vested interest and sought to maintain itself by assuming exclusive control over the relationships between god and man .
doctrine was not only mysterious ; ;
these basic ideas concerning the nature of religion were , adams believed , some of the major keys to the understanding of history and the movement of society .
despite their adherence to the status quo , the forces of organized religion were compelled to make adjustments as increasing civilization augmented human knowledge .
the relic worship and monasticism of the middle ages were more advanced forms than were primitive fetish worship and nature myths .
to adams that age in which religion exercised power over the entire culture of the race was one of imagination , and it is largely the admiration he so obviously held for such eras that betrays a peculiar religiosity -- a sentiment he would have probably denied .
catherwood , an architect in new york , had been forgotten , like stephens , and victor reconstructed their lives as one reconstructs , for a museum , a dinosaur from two or three petrified bones .
victor had been stirred by my account of him in makers and finders , for stephens was one of the lost writers whom melville had seen in his childhood and whom i was bent on resurrecting .
his metier was the american tropics , and he had lived all over latin america and among the primitive tribes on the amazon river .
he had not yet undertaken the great exploit of his later years , the rediscovery of the ancient inca highway , the route of pizarro in peru , but he had climbed to the original el dorado , the andean lake of guatemala , and he had scaled the southern sierra nevada with its tibetan-like people and looked into the emerald mines of muzo .
in fact , he had raised quetzal birds in his camp in the forest of ecuador .
victor's book on john lloyd stephens was largely written in my study in the house at weston .
he said he was a friend of heywood broun who had run a free employment bureau for several months during the depression , but the generous broun to whom i wrote did not know his name and i somehow conceived the morbid notion that the man in question was prowling round the house .
there had been something sinister about him that warned me against him , -- i had never felt that way about any other boy , -- but when he uttered his name on the telephone i had forgotten this and i was glad to do what he asked of me .
never hearing from him again , i remembered the little boy of whom i had had such doubts when he was ten years old .
finally we got them out of the house , after the boy had run away four times looking for other nazis , threatening to murder village schoolchildren and bragging that he was to be the next fuhrer .
we found that a charitable society in new york had a long case-history of the two ; ;
to the weston house came once william allen neilson , the president of smith college who had been one of my old professors and who still called me `` boy '' when i was sixty .
i had always thought of that lovable man as many years older than myself , although he was perhaps only twenty years older , and he confirmed my feeling , along with the feeling of both my sons , that teachers of the classics are invariably endearing .
he had written to me about a dinner he had had with the benedictine monks at st. anselm's priory in washington .
he said , `` some have criticized your book as being neither literary criticism nor history .
some have felt that washington irving comes out rather slimly , but let them look at the title of the book '' .
two or three times , c. c. burlingham came to lunch with us in weston , that wonderful man who lived to be more than a hundred years old and whose birthplace had been my wall street suburb .
i could never forget the gaiety with which , when he was both blind and deaf , he let me lead him around his rooms to look at some of the pictures ; ;
there were several men of ninety or more whom i knew first or last , all of whom were still productive and most of whom knew one another as if they had naturally come together at the apex of their lives .
but i liked to think of him at ninety swimming and working at key west long after hemingway had moved to cuba .
then there was mark howe and there was henry dwight sedgwick , an accomplished man of letters who wrote in the spirit of montaigne and produced in the end a formidable body of work .
i had to confess that i had missed these frescoes , recently discovered , that he had studied in his eighties .
but he defended the doctrine in the art of happiness , and what indeed could be said against the epicurean virtues , health , frugality , privacy , culture and friendship ? ?
he replied , `` my first choice would be mark howe '' .
then i spoke at the ninetieth birthday party of w. e. burghardt du bois , who embarked on a fictional trilogy at eighty-nine and who , with the crisis , had created a negro intelligentsia that had never existed in america before him .
mr. burlingham , -- `` c.c.b. '' -- wrote to me once about an old friend of mine , s. k. ratcliffe , whom i had first met in london in 1914 and who also came out for a week-end in weston .
and his memory , like an elephant's , stored with precise knowledge of men and things and happenings '' .
people and books are enough for them '' .
later , rising ninety , he was beset by publishers for the story of his life and miracles , as he put it , but , calling himself the needy knife-grinder , he had spent his time writing short articles and long letters and could not get even a small popular book done .
however , at eighty-five , he had still been busy writing articles , reviewing and speaking , and i had never before known an englishman who had visited and lectured in three quarters of the united states .
with their facile generalizations about the united states , these mediocrities , as they often were , had been great successes .
i should have replied , `` i probably know something about the best part of you '' .
many years later i went to see s.k. in england , where he was living at whiteleaf , near aylesbury , and he showed me beside his cottage there the remains of the road on which boadicea is supposed to have travelled .
`` but however we go , whatever our doom , it will not take the orwellian shape '' .
but put them before a situation which they are forced to depict '' , -- he was speaking of the spanish civil war , -- `` and they have no hesitation ; ;
he looked at her as she spoke , then got up as she was speaking still , and , simply and wordlessly , walked out .
or nearly .
would he meet him in baltimore in drawing room a , car three on the train leaving washington at nine o'clock next morning ? ?
but not for long .
but none of this could soothe the exacerbated nerves .
but , in departing , lewis begged breasted that there be no liquor in the apartment at the grosvenor on his return , and he took with him the first thirty galleys of elmer gantry .
`` this whole washington venture was my last gesture , and it has failed .
my last gift to him is complete silence until the book is out and the first heated discussion dies down .
i am really ill at the present moment , and i will go to some sort of a sanitarium to normalize myself '' .
harcourt replied : `` i do really hope you can achieve serenity in the course of time .
8
he had been , he wrote mencken at once , `` in the country '' , a euphemism for an experience that had not greatly changed him .
they were strays of every kind -- university students and journalists , village hangers-on and barflies , taxi drivers and editors and unknown poets , as well as friends like elinor wylie and william rose benet , the van dorens and nathan , rebecca west and hugh walpole and osbert sitwell , laurence stallings , lewis browne , william seabrook , arthur hopkins , the woodwards .
he did not neglect his wife in cromwell hall , but telephoned her and wrote her with assurances of his continuing interest and of his wish to `` stand behind '' her in their separation and of his hope that there would be no bitterness between them .
he was of unsettled mind as to whether he should go abroad when the gantry galleys were finished .
if breasted agreed , they would get a car and tour the country , visiting every kind of industrial center .
he telephoned l. m. birkhead and asked him and his wife to come to europe as his guests , but birkhead declined on the grounds that one of them must be in the united states when elmer gantry was published .
before he made that retreat , he telephoned earl blackman in kansas city and asked him to come to europe with him .
lewis told him what clothes he should bring along , and enjoined him not to buy anything that he did not already own , they would do that in new york .
on the evening that they were to sail , lewis himself gave a party , but he was too indisposed to appear at it .
after a dinner party for which she had come down to new york , mrs. lewis and casanova arrived to see them off , and elinor wylie made tart observations that indicated that lewis had been less discreet than he had promised to be about the real nature of their separation .
as they stood at the first-class rail , waving down to his wife and casanova below , lewis said , `` earl , there is gracie's future husband '' .
blackman had brought news from kansas city .
he was outraged by the book and announced that he had discovered fifty technical errors in its account of church practices .
but his rancor did not cease , and presently , on march 13 , when he preached a sermon on the text , `` and ben-hadad was drunk '' , he told his congregation how disappointed he was in mr. lewis , how he regretted having had him in his house , and how he should have been warned by the fact that the novelist was drunk all the time that he was working on the book .
in london lewis took the usual suite in bury street .
the manchester guardian wondered how anyone in a railway carriage would have an opportunity to talk to mr. lewis , since it was well known that mr. lewis always did all of the talking .
the new york times editorialist wondered just who would stop mr. lewis and make him write a book .
there , to the evening post , she emphatically denied the divorce rumors and explained that she had stayed behind because of the schooling of their son , which henceforth would be strictly american .
one had it that a friend , protesting her snobbery , said , `` but , gracie , you are an american , aren't you '' ? ?
lewis himself furthered these tales .
with these and similar tales he was entertaining his english friends , all of whom he was seeing when he was not showing blackman the sights of london and its environs .
he invited lady sybil , lord thomson , bechhofer roberts , and a half dozen others .
lewis , at the head of the table , would leap up and move around behind the chairs of his guests making remarks that , when not highly offensive , were at least highly inappropriate , and then presently he collapsed and was put to bed .
finally , at dawn , he fell asleep , and when he awoke and came into the living room , he found lewis in his pajamas before the fire , smoking a cigarette .
lewis warned him never to lay a hand on him , and then blackman asked for his fare back to the united states .
`` and from now on , for the rest of this trip , i will only drink what you agree that i should drink '' .
lewis gave him a guidebook tour of london and , motoring and walking , took him to stratford , but the london stay was for only ten days , and on the twentieth they took the train for southampton , where they spent the night for an early morning channel crossing .
he suggested that they call on these brothers , who received them pleasantly .
it was late , and blackman was ready to go to sleep , but lewis was not .
earl agreed , and lewis said that it would have been very different if his wife had been with him .
he began the dialogue by having his wife announce that one does not invade people's homes without warning them that one is coming , and went on from that with the entire catalogue of his social gaucheries .
as the total number of incepting bachelors in 1629 was , according to masson ( life , 1:218 ) and n , two hundred fifty-nine , the twenty-four names listed in the ordo senioritatis for that year constitute slightly less than one tenth of the total number of bachelors who then incepted .
the list was headed by ( henry ) hutton of st. john's who was matriculated from st. john's at easter , 1625 .
the second name was ( edward ) kempe , matriculated from queens' college at easter , 1625 .
he was ordained deacon 16 june and priest 22 december 1633 .
the fourth name was ( john ) milton of christ's college , followed by ( richard ) manningham of peterhouse , who matriculated 16 october 1624 .
manningham also proceeded m.a. in 1632 and became a fellow of his college in that year .
the fourteenth name was ( richard ) buckenham , written buckman , admitted to christ's college under scott 2 july 1625 .
christ's college was well represented that year in the ordo , and the name highest on the list from that college was milton's , fourth in the entire university .
it is not possible to reconstruct fully the arrangements whereby these honors lists were then made up or even how the names that they contained assumed the order in which we find them .
then the various officers of the college might take up the case .
of course the higher officials could add or place a name on the list wherever they wished .
he evidently earned the place assigned him .
looking back from the spring of 1629 over the four years of milton's undergraduate days , certain phases of his college career stand out as of permanent consequence to him and hence to us .
it differed from what an undergraduate receives today from any american college or university mainly in the certainty of what he was forced to learn compared with the loose and widely scattered information obtained today by most of our undergraduates .
he had also sampled various special fields of learning , being unable to miss some study of divinity , justinian ( law ) , and galen ( medicine ) .
he had learned to dispute devastatingly , both formally and informally in latin , and according to the rules on any topic , pro or con , drawn from almost any subject , more especially from aristotle's works .
he had also learned to dispute extempore remarkably well , the main evidence for which of course is the presence of his name in the honors list of 1628/29 .
then we have surviving at least one instance of a poem prepared for another , in naturam non pati senium , and perhaps also the de idea platonica .
these were his public academic activities , domi forisque , in the college and in the university .
his other activities are not so easily recovered .
his later boastings of his skill with the small sword are indicative of much time and practice devoted to the use of that weapon .
milton himself , uncommunicative as he is about his lesser and nonliterary activities , at least gives us some evidence that he was a great walker , under any and all conditions .
the town itself and the `` reedy cam '' he often visited , as did all in the university .
the tiny hamlet of chesterton to the north , with the fens and marshes lying on down the ouse river , may have attracted him often , as it did many other youths of the time .
the country about cambridge is flat and not particularly spectacular in its scenery , though it offers easy going to the foot traveler .
he smoked , as did everybody , and imbibed the various alcoholic beverages of that day , although his protestations while at cambridge and after that he was no drunkard point to reasonable abstinence from the wild drinking bouts of some of the undergraduates and , we must add , of some of their elders including many of the regents or teachers .
he was then a slightly built young man of pleasing appearance , medium stature , and handsome face .
a quibusdam , , audivi nuper domina .
the domina sounds real enough , if we could only trust the conditions under which we learn of its use ; ;
in short , the traditional epithet for milton of ' lady of christ's ' , while eminently fitting , rests only on this baffling passage in the midst of the most treacherous piece of writing milton left us .
it is not a question of truth or falsity ; ;
the entire exercise , latin and english , is most suggestive of the kind of person milton had become at christ's during his undergraduate career ; ;
milton was to act as the archfool , the supreme wit , the lightly bantering pater , pater liber , who could at once trip lightly over that which deserved such treatment , or could at will annihilate the common enemies of the college gathering , and with words alone .
to do this successfully required great skill and a special talent for both solemn and ribald raillery , a talent not bestowed on many persons , but one with which milton was marked as being endowed and in which , at least in this performance , he obviously reveled .
but the real beginnings of this development in him go back to the opposing of grammar school , and probably if it had not been this occasion and these latin lines it would have been some others , such as the first prolusion , that set off this streak in him of unbridled and scathing verbal attack on an enemy .
but these prolusions that we have surviving from the christ's college days are only one phase of his existence then .
lines 23-36 of lycidas later point to a friendship with edward king , who entered christ's college 9 june 1626 .
but that scarcely means that he was the aloof , forbidding type of student who shared few if any activities with his fellows , the banter of the surviving prolusions providing enough evidence to deny this .
but even in that famous passage , milton was aiming not at the theatricals as such but at their performance by ' persons either enter'd , or presently to enter into the ministry .
perhaps , in that short piece or letter written to hartlib in which he sketched his scheme for educating young men , he merely overlooked that phase of their exercises .
on the other hand , the bright vision of the future has been directly stated in science fiction concerned with projecting ideal societies -- science fiction , of course , is related , if sometimes distantly , to that utopian literature optimistic about science , literature whose period of greatest vigor in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries produced edward bellamy's looking backward and h. g. wells's a modern utopia .
childhood's end -- apparently indebted to kurd lasswitz's utopian romance , auf zwei planeten ( 1897 ) , and also to wells's histories of the future , especially , the world set free ( 1914 ) and the shape of things to come ( 1933 ) -- describes the bloodless conquest of earth by the overlords , vastly superior creatures who come to our world in order to prepare the human race for its next stage of development , an eventual merging with the composite mind of the universe .
under their rule , earth becomes a technological utopia .
a man could travel anywhere he pleased , eat whatever he fancied -- without handing over any money '' .
mankind , as a result , attains previously undreamed of levels of civilization and culture , a golden age which the overlords , a very evident symbol of science , have helped produce by introducing reason and the scientific method into human activities .
considering then the optimism which has permeated science fiction for so long , what is really remarkable is that during the last twelve years many science-fiction writers have turned about and attacked their own cherished vision of the future , have attacked the childhood's end kind of faith that science and technology will inevitably better the human condition .
because of the means of publication -- science-fiction magazines and cheap paperbacks -- and because dystopian science fiction is still appearing in quantity the full range and extent of this phenomenon can hardly be known , though one fact is evident : the science-fiction imagination has been immensely fertile in its extrapolations .
james blish's a case of conscience ( 1958 ) describes a world hiding from its own weapons of destruction in underground shelters ; ;
walter m. miller , jr.'s , a canticle for leibowitz ( 1959 ) finds men , after the great atomic disaster , stumbling back to their previous level of civilization and another catastrophe ; ;
clifford d. simak's `` how-2 '' ( 1954 ) tells of a future when robots have taken over , leaving men nothing to do ; ;
a more complete list would also include bradbury's `` the pedestrian '' ( 1951 ) , philip k. dick's solar lottery ( 1955 ) , david karp's one ( 1953 ) , wilson tucker's the long loud silence ( 1952 ) , jack vance's to live forever ( 1956 ) , gore vidal's messiah ( 1954 ) , and bernard wolfe's limbo ( 1952 ) , as well as the three perhaps most outstanding dystopias , frederik pohl and c. m. kornbluth's the space merchants ( 1953 ) , kurt vonnegut's player piano ( 1952 ) , and john wyndham's re-birth ( 1953 ) , works which we will later examine in detail .
there is , of course , nothing new about dystopias , for they belong to a literary tradition which , including also the closely related satiric utopias , stretches from at least as far back as the eighteenth century and swift's gulliver's travels to the twentieth century and zamiatin's we , capek's war with the newts , huxley's brave new world , e. m. forster's `` the machine stops '' , c. s. lewis's that hideous strength , and orwell's nineteen eighty-four , and which in science fiction is represented before the present deluge as early as wells's trilogy , the time machine , `` a story of the days to come '' , and when the sleeper wakes , and as recently as jack williamson's `` with folded hands '' ( 1947 ) , the classic story of men replaced by their own robots .
since the great flood of these dystopias has appeared only in the last twelve years , it seems fairly reasonable to assume that the chief impetus was the 1949 publication of nineteen eighty-four , an assumption which is supported by the frequent echoes of such details as room 101 , along with education by conditioning from brave new world , a book to which science-fiction writers may well have returned with new interest after reading the more powerful orwell dystopia .
and among works of dystopian science fiction , not all provide intelligent criticism and very few have much merit as literature -- but then real quality has always been scarce in science fiction .
nevertheless , with all these qualifications and exceptions , the current dystopian phenomenon remains impressive for its criticism that science and technology , instead of bringing utopia , may well enslave , dehumanize , and even destroy men .
easily the best known of these three novels is the space merchants , a good example of a science-fiction dystopia which extrapolates much more than the impact of science on human life , though its most important warning is in this area , namely as to the use to which discoveries in the behavioral sciences may be put .
like ours , the economy of the space merchants must constantly expand in order to survive , and , like ours , it is based on the principle of `` ever increasing everybody's work and profits in the circle of consumption '' .
for example , even the most successful executive lives in a two-room apartment while ordinary people rent space in the stairwells of office buildings in which to sleep at night ; ;
and the atmosphere is so befouled that no one dares walk in the open without respirators or soot plugs .
what is wrong with advertising is not only that it is an `` outrage , an assault on people's mental privacy '' or that it is a major cause for a wasteful economy of abundance or that it contains a coercive tendency ( which is closer to the point ) .
the space merchants , like such humanist documents as joseph wood krutch's the measure of man and c. s. lewis's the abolition of man , considers what may result from the scientific study of human nature .
thus we will have a society consisting of the planners or conditioners , and the controlled .
pohl and kornbluth's ad men have long since thrown out appeals to reason and developed techniques of advertising which tie in with `` every basic trauma and neurosis in american life '' , which work on the libido of consumers , which are linked to the `` great prime motivations of the human spirit '' .
and to do this requires first of all the kind of information about people which is provided by the scientists in industrial anthropology and consumer research , who , for example , tell courtenay that three days is the `` optimum priming period for a closed social circuit to be triggered with a catalytic cue-phrase '' -- which means that an effective propaganda technique is to send an idea into circulation and then three days later reinforce or undermine it .
thus the copywriter in the world of the space merchants is the person who in earlier ages might have been a lyric poet , the person `` capable of putting together words that stir and move and sing '' .
and we do it by taking talent -- and redirecting it '' .
-- since , as courtenay says , `` nobody should play with lives the way we do unless he's motivated by the highest ideals '' .
indeed , again and again , the space merchants confirm the prediction of the humanists that the conditioners and behavioral scientists , once they have seen through human nature , will have nothing except their impulses and desires to guide them .
yet even in the more extreme of such cases we seldom go very far astray in guessing what his age actually is .
`` young for his age '' means only the presence of some minor characteristic not quite usual .
an assumption of youth , or the presence of a few youthful characteristics , deceives no more successfully than rouge or dyed hair .
a mind expressing itself in words may reveal itself a little less obviously as old or young .
youth may be , and often is , skeptical , cynical or despairing ; ;
but there is , nevertheless , always a subtle difference in the way in which supposedly similar opinions are held .
similarly the optimism of age protests too much .
`` boy , you ain't fooling nobody but yourself '' .
we cannot truthfully say of anyone who has succeeded in entering deep into his sixties that he was never old .
no good can come of contemplating the sad , inevitable fact that once youth has passed `` a worse and worse time still succeeds the former '' .
one is that there sometimes are real although inadequate compensations in growing old .
even to be `` from hope and fear set free '' is at least better than to have lost the first without having got rid of the second .
one may be exasperatingly aware that if the answer is favorable it will be judged such only by those of one's own age .
many readers of this department no doubt discount certain of my opinions for the simple reason that they can guess pretty accurately , even if they have never actually been told , what my age is .
let me then ( and in public ) glance into the mirror .
that their remote past is as discontinuous with their present selves , as lacking in any conscious likeness to their mature personality , as the self of a butterfly may be imagined discontinuous with that of the caterpillar it once was .
i have changed and i have reversed opinions ; ;
so far as i am concerned , the child is unmistakably father to the man , despite the obvious fact that child and father differ greatly -- sometimes for the better and sometimes for the worse .
that fact is very clearly illustrated in the case of the many present-day intellectuals who were communists or near-communists in their youth and are now so extremely conservative ( or reactionary , as many would say ) that they can define no important political conviction that does not seem so far from even a centrist position as to make the distinction between mr. nixon and mr. khrushchev for them hardly worth noting .
to those of my readers who find many of my opinions morally , or politically , or sociologically antiquated ( and i have reason to know that there are some such ) , i would like to say what i have already hinted , namely , that some of my opinions may indeed be subject to some discount on the simple ground that i am no longer young and therefore incapable of being youthful of mind .
so that , although not as eager as i once was to be disapproved of , i can still resist prevailing opinions .
several times in my youth i voted the socialist ticket , but less because i was socialist than because i was not either a republican or a democrat , and i voted for franklin roosevelt every time he was a candidate .
never once during the trying thirties did i come so close to succumbing to the private climate of opinion as to grant russian communism even that most weasel-worded of encomiums `` an interesting experiment '' .
many of my friends at the time thought that i had received a well-deserved condemnation when lincoln steffens denounced me in a review of one of my books as a perfect example of the obsolete man who could understand and sympathize only with the dead past .
the favorite excuse of those who have now recanted their approval of communism is that they did not know how things would develop .
there was , it seems to me , enough in the openly declared principles and intentions of russian leaders to alienate honorable men without their having to wait to see how it would turn out .
he asked me suddenly , `` what are your political opinions '' ? ?
after a moment's thought he replied , `` that still leaves you a lot of latitude '' .
i never have been , and am not now , any kind of utopian .
it will probably explain more of my attitudes toward society than any other phrase or principle could .
the reason is , i think , my awareness that my remarks last quarter on pacifism may well have served to confirm the opinion of some that my tendency to skepticism and dissent gets us nowhere , and that i am simply too old to hope .
i know that one must act .
apropos of what some would call cynicism , i remember an anecdote the source of which i forget .
not only his parishioners , but the whole town and , ultimately , the whole county were enormously impressed by this object lesson .
`` how on earth do you manage it ? ?
`` why '' , he replied , `` it is perfectly simple ; ;
all you have to do is put in a fresh lamb from time to time '' .
blasphemous ? ?
the promise that the lion and the lamb will lie down together was given in the future tense .
without really changing the general subject , i take this opportunity to confess that i am troubled by doubts , not only about pacifism , but also when asked to join in the protest against a law that most of those who consider themselves humane and liberal seem to regard as obviously barbarous ; ;
it is not that i am unaware of the force of their strongest contention .
in fact i cannot imagine myself condemning a man to the noose or the electric chair if i had to take , as an individual , the responsibility for his death .
despite these facts the question `` : :
seems to me to create a dilemma not to be satisfactorily disposed of by a simple negative answer .
for here if anywhere in contemporary literature is a major effort to counterbalance existentialism and restore some of its former lustre to the tarnished image of the species man , or , as malraux himself puts it , `` to make men conscious of the grandeur they ignore in themselves '' .
andre malraux's the walnut trees of altenburg was written in the early years of the second world war , during a period of enforced leisure when he was taken prisoner by the germans after the fall of france .
the work as it stands is not the entire book that malraux wrote at that time -- it is only the first section of a three-part novel called la lutte avec l'ange ; ;
if we are to believe the list of titles printed in malraux's latest book , la metamorphose des dieux , vol. 1 ( ( 1957 ) , he is still engaged in writing a large novel under his original title .
malraux pretends , perhaps with a trifle too self-conscious a modesty , that his fragmentary work will accordingly `` appeal only to the curiosity of bibliophiles '' and `` to connoisseurs of what might have been '' .
and it should be far better known than it is .
this magnificent but greatly underestimated book , which bodies forth the very form and pressure of its time as no other comparable creation , has suffered severely from having been written about an historical event -- the spanish civil war -- that is still capable of fanning the smoldering fires of old political feuds .
and has then gone on to argue , with unimpeachable consistency , that all the obviously non-propagandistic aspects of the book are simply inadvertent `` contradictions '' .
the whole purpose of man's hope is to portray the tragic dialectic between means and ends inherent in all organized political violence -- and even when such violence is a necessary and legitimate self-defense of liberty , justice and human dignity .
`` man engages only a small part of himself in an action '' says old alvear the art-historian ; ;
these lines never cease to haunt the book amidst all the exaltations of combat , and to make an appeal for a larger and more elemental human community than one based on the brutal necessities of war .
malraux , to be sure , does not abandon the world of violence , combat and sudden death which has become his hallmark as a creative artist , and which is the only world , apparently , in which his imagination can flame into life .
but while war still serves as a catalyst for the values that malraux wishes to express , these values are no longer linked with the triumph or defeat of any cause -- whether that of an individual assertion of the will-to-power , or a collective attempt to escape from the humiliation of oppression -- as their necessary condition .
2 ,
this central episode consists of a series of staccato scenes set in the period from the beginning of the present century up to the first world war .
the narrator is an alsatian serving with the french army , and he has the same name ( berger ) that malraux himself was later to use in the resistance ; ;
these biographical analogies are obvious , and far too much time has been spent speculating on their possible implications .
for as his companions gradually dissolve back into a state of primitive confrontation with elemental necessity , as they lose all the appanage of their acquired culture , he is overcome by the feeling that he is at last being confronted with the essence of mankind .
here i am face to face with the primeval stuff '' .
and we must attend to it more closely than has usually been done .
a good many pages of the first section are taken up with an account of the dogged determination of the prisoners to write to their wives and families -- even when it becomes clear that the germans are simply allowing the letters to blow away in the wind .
they instinctively struggle to keep open a road to the future in their hearts .
the narrator feels himself catching a glimpse of pre-history , learning of man's `` age-old familiarity with misfortune '' , as well as his `` equally age-old ingenuity , his secret faith in endurance , however crammed with catastrophes , the same faith perhaps as the cave-men used to have in the face of famine '' .
`` i thought i knew more than my education had taught me , '' notes the narrator , `` because i had encountered the militant mobs of a political or religious faith '' .
but now he knows `` that an intellectual is not only a man to whom books are necessary , he is any man whose reasoning , however elementary it may be , affects and directs his life '' .
the men around him , observes the narrator , `` have been living from day to day for thousands of years '' .
and the narrator recalls the words of his father , vincent berger : `` it is not by any amount of scratching at the individual that one finally comes down to mankind '' .
`` he was not much older than myself , '' writes the narrator , `` when he began to feel the impact of that human mystery which now obsesses me , and which makes me begin , perhaps , to understand him '' .
a professor at the university of constantinople , where his first course of lectures was on nietzsche and the `` philosophy of action '' , vincent berger becomes head of the propaganda department of the german embassy in turkey .
but he quickly involves himself in the young turk revolutionary movement to such an extent that his own country begins to doubt his patriotism .
vincent berger's mission is a failure because the ottoman nationalism on which enver pasha counted does not exist .
and amid a dusty desolation in which nothing human any longer seemed to survive , vincent berger begins to dream of the occident .
trains whistling in the night , the rattle and clatter of cabs .
this has been his first encounter with mankind , and , although he has now become a legendary figure in the popular european press , it leaves him profoundly dissatisfied .
and vincent berger learns that political ambition is more apt to hide than to reveal the truth about men .
`` for six years my father had had to do too much commanding and convincing , '' writes the narrator , `` not to understand that man begins with ' the other ' '' .
for a dawning sense of illumination occurs in consequence of two events which , as so often in malraux , suddenly confront a character with the existential question of the nature and value of human life .
in a pessimistic assessment of the cold war , eden declared : `` there must be much closer unity within the west before there can be effective negotiation with the east '' .
`` something much more thorough is required '' .
`` this '' , he said , `` is exactly what has been happening between the politically free nations in the postwar world .
citing the advances of communist power in recent years , sir anthony observed : `` this very grave state of affairs will continue until the free nations accept together the reality of the danger that confronts them and unite their policies and resources to meet it '' .
while it is hazardous to project the trend of history , it seems clear that a genuine community is painfully emerging in the western world , particularly among the countries of western europe .
the excesses of nationalism had brought down upon europe a generation of tyranny and war , and a return to the old order of things seemed unthinkable .
a slow and painful trend toward unification has taken hold , a trend which may at any time be arrested and reversed but which may also lead to a binding federation of europe .
the movement toward european unity has been expressed in two currents : federalism and functionalism , one looking to the constitution of a united states of europe , the other building on wartime precedents of practical cooperation for the solution of specific problems .
many factors contributed to the growth of the european movement .
had churchill been returned to office in 1945 , it is just possible that britain , instead of standing fearfully aloof , would have led europe toward union .
the united states might well have exploited the opportunity provided by the european recovery program to push the hesitant european nations toward political federation as well as economic cooperation , but all proposals to this effect were rejected by the united states government at the time .
the communist coup in czechoslovakia in 1948 was followed immediately by the conclusion of the brussels treaty , a 50-year alliance among britain , france and the benelux countries .
new organs of unification proliferated in the decade following the conclusion of the nato alliance .
in 1952 , the european coal and steel community was launched , placing the coal and steel production of france , west germany , italy and benelux under a supranational high authority .
in 1957 the social-economic approach to european integration was capped by the formation among `` the six '' of a tariff-free european common market , and euratom for cooperation in the development of atomic energy .
the united states and canada belong only to nato and the new o.e.c.d. .
in other areas it held back , pleading its commonwealth bonds .
besides its historical significance as a break with the centuries-old tradition of british insularity , britain's move , if successful , will constitute an historic landmark of the first importance in the movement toward the unification of europe and the western world .
the time is now ripe , indeed overdue , for the vigorous development of its non-military potentialities , for its development as an instrument of atlantic community .
they will seek to eliminate conflict in their international economic policies and will encourage economic collaboration between any and all of them '' .
`` nato cannot live on fear alone .
the problem of nato is not one of machinery , of which there is an abundance , but of the will to use it .
the unofficial conference of parliamentarians is available as a potential legislative authority .
the existence of a community is a state of mind -- a conviction that goals and values are widely shared , that effective communication is possible , that mutual trust is reasonably assured .
conceived as an organ of economic cooperation , there is no reason why o.e.c.d. cannot evolve into a broader instrument of union if its members so desire .
underlying these hopes and prescriptions is a conviction that the nations of the north atlantic area do indeed form a community , at least a potential community .
what is new and compelling is that the west is now but one of several powerful civilizations , or `` systems '' , and that one or more of the others may pose a mortal danger to the west .
that time is now past and the atlantic nations , if they are to survive , must develop a full-fledged community , and they must also look beyond the frontiers of `` western civilization '' toward a world-wide `` concert of free nations '' .
the burden of these reflections is that a broader unity among the free nations is at the core of our needs .
a realistic balancing of the need for new forms of international organization on the one hand , and our capacity to achieve them on the other , must be approached through the concept of `` community '' .
only when a concert of nations rests on the positive foundations of shared goals and values is it likely to form a viable instrument of long-range policy .
it is very much a matter of building the foundations of community .
in a recent book called `` world peace through world law '' , two distinguished lawyers , grenville clark and louis sohn , call for just such an overhaul of the u.n. , basing their case on the world-wide fear of a nuclear holocaust .
such proposals look to an apocalyptic act , a kind of lockian `` social contract '' on a world-wide scale .
a working concept of the organic evolution of community must lead us in a different direction .
our problem , therefore , is to devise processes more modest in their aspirations , adjusted to the real world of sovereign nation states and diverse and hostile communities .
it is possible that international organization will ultimately supplant the multi-state system , but its proper function for the immediate future is to reform and supplement that system in order to render pluralism more compatible with an interdependent world .
generally , however , there is an abundance of available machinery of coordination -- in nato , in o.e.c.d. , in the u.n. and elsewhere .
our proper objective , then , is the development of a new spirit , the realization of a potential community .
constitutions of and by themselves mean little ; ;
but a powerful sense of community , even with little or no machinery , means a great deal .
a realistic `` concert of free nations '' might be expected to consist of an `` inner community '' of the north atlantic nations and an `` outer community '' embracing much or all of the non-communist world .
`` it might well start a craze like swallowing goldfish or pee-wee golf '' , wrote kenneth rexroth in an explanatory note in the evergreen review , and he may have been right .
lawrence ferlenghetti and bruce lippincott have concentrated on writing a new poetry for reading with jazz that is very closely related to both the musical forms of jazz , and the vocabulary of the musician .
( judy tristano now has poems as well as ballads written for her .
but the best known exploiters of the new medium are kenneth rexroth and kenneth patchen .
rexroth is a longtime jazz buff , a name-dropper of jazz heroes , and a student of traditional as well as modern jazz .
although patchen has given previous evidence of an interest in jazz , the musical group that he works with , the chamber jazz sextet , is often ignored by jazz critics .
) the stated goal of the cjs is the synthesis of jazz and `` serious '' music .
he had read his poetry with musicians as early as 1951 , and his entire career has been characterized by radical experiments with the form and presentation of his poetry .
from the beginning of his career , patchen has adopted an anti-intellectual approach to poetry .
he spoke for a `` proletariat '' that included `` all the lost and sick and hunted of the earth '' .
running counter to the destroying forces in the world are all the virtues that are innate in man , the capacity for love and brotherhood , the ability to appreciate beauty .
this salvation does not take the form of a christian heaven .
patchen envisions a dark kingdom which `` stands above the waters as a sentinel warning man of danger from his own kind '' .
actually heaven and the dark kingdom overlap ; ;
patchen has almost never used strict poetic forms ; ;
much of his earlier work was conceived in terms of a `` pseudo-anthropological '' myth reference , which is concerned with imaginary places and beings described in grandiloquent and travelogue-like language .
beginning in cloth of the tempest ( 1943 ) he experimented in merging poetry and visual art , using drawings to carry long narrative segments of a story , as in sleepers awake , and constructing elaborate `` poems-in-drawing-and-type '' in which it is impossible to distinguish between the `` art '' and the poetry .
many of his poems purported to be exactly contemporary and political ; ;
speaking in terms of sociological stereotype , the `` private eye '' might appeal to the poet in search of a myth for many reasons .
he is usually something of an underdog , he must battle the organized police force as well as recognized criminals .
the private detective is militant against injustice , a humorous and ironic explorer of the underworld ; ;
in 1945 , probably almost every american not only knew who sam spade was , but had some kind of emotional feeling about him .
but since 1945 , sam spade has undergone a metamorphosis ; ;
he has , like so many other secular and religious culture symbols , gone over to the side of the ruling classes .
to fill the job of contemporary hero in 1955 , patchen needed someone else .
the revolution in jazz that took place around 1949 , the evolution from the `` bebop '' school of dizzy gillespie to the `` cool '' sound of miles davis and lennie tristano , lee konitz , and the whole legend of charlie parker , had made an impression on many academic and literary men .
the immense amount of interest that the new jazz had for the younger generation must have impressed him , and he began working toward the merger of jazz and poetry , as he had previously attempted the union of graphic art and poetry .
in this respect , his approach to poetry-and-jazz is in marked contrast to kenneth rexroth's .
he usually draws some kind of comparison with the jazz tradition and the poem he is reading -- for instance , he draws the parallel between a poem he reads about an oriental courtesan waiting for the man she loves , and who never comes , and the old blues chants of ma rainy and other negro singers -- but usually the comparison is specious .
patchen does read some of his earlier works to music , but he has written an entire book of short poems which seem to be especially suited for reading with jazz .
it is difficult to draw the line between stereotype and the reality of the jazz musician .
seen by the public , the musician is the underdog par excellence .
his approach to music is highly individualistic ; ;
while he is worldly , the musician often cultivates public attitudes of childlike astonishment and naivete .
he is far from being a literary hero , yet is a creative artist .
in order to write with authority either about musicians , or as a musician , patchen would have to soft pedal his characteristically outspoken anger , and change ( at least for the purposes of this poetry ) from a revolutionary to a victim .
this involves a shift in patchen's attitude and it is a first step toward writing a new jazz poetry .
perhaps tracing some of these more important symbols through the body of his work will show that patchen's new poetry is well thought out , and remains within the mainstream of his work , while being suited to a new form .
his revolutionary anger is apparent in most of his early poems .
`` anger won't help .
angry that my father was being burnt alive in the mills ; ;
angry because i was that very one somebody was supposed to be fighting for '' .
in his recent book , hurray for anything ( 1957 ) , one of the most important short poems -- and it is the title poem for one of the long jazz arrangements -- is written for recital with jazz .
`` i went to the city and there i did weep , men a-crowing like asses , and living like sheep .
can't hold her little white han' ! !
oh , can't hold the han' of my love ! !
'' patchen is still the rebel , but he writes in a doleful , mournful tone .
each is so typical that it represents a prominent trend in the poet's development .
in many of his poems , death comes by train : a strongly evocative visual image .
lord , love us , look at all the disconnected limbs floating hereabouts , like bloody feathers at that -- and all the eyes are talking and all the hair are moving and all the tongue are in all the cheek .
he is new york-born and jewish .
he returned to new york to work for the new yorker , to edit a western pulp , to `` duck the war in the owi '' , to write publicity for paramount pictures and commentary for a newsreel , then he began his career as critic for various magazines .
i do not want to quibble about typicality ; ;
but i've got news for krim : he's not typical , he's pretty special .
in any case , who ever thought that new york is typical of anything ? ?
they did not `` duck the war '' but they fought in it , however reluctantly ; ;
they read widely and eclectically ; ;
they found out who they were and what they could do , then within the limits of their talent they did it .
and they traveled out of new york .
it is a publishing and public relations center , but these very facts prevent it from being a literary center because writers dislike provincialism and untruth .
he displays what outlanders call the new york mind , a state that the subject is necessarily unable to perceive in himself .
in his fulminating against the literary world , krim is really struggling with the new yorker in himself , but it's a losing battle .
he writes , `` most of my friends and i were jewish ; ;
the combination of the jewish intellectual tradition and the sensibility needed to be a writer created in my circle the most potent and incredible intellectual-literary ambition i have ever seen or could ever have imagined .
their reading and thinking gave an extension to their normal blushes about appearing ' jewish ' in subway , bus , racetrack , movie house , any of the public places that used to make the jew of my generation self-conscious ( heavy thinkers walking across seventh avenue without their glasses on , willing to dare the trucks as long as they didn't look like the ikey-kikey caricature of the yiddish intellectual ) .
krim says , in short , that he is a suffering jew .
we all love to suffer , but some of us love to suffer more than others .
more important is the simple human point that all men suffer , and that it is a kind of anthropological-religious pride on the part of the jew to believe that his suffering is more poignant than mine or anyone else's .
in their stupidity and arrogance they believe they are called upon to remind the gentile continually of pogroms and ghettos .
finally , there is the undeniable fact that some of the finest american fiction is being written by jews , but it is not jewish fiction ; ;
krim's main attack is upon the aesthetic and the publishing apparatus of american literary culture in our day .
`` i had natural sock '' , he says , ' as a storyteller and was precociously good at description , dialogue , and most of the other staples of the fiction-writer's trade but i was bugged by a mammoth complex of thoughts and feelings that prevented me from doing more than just diddling the surface of sustained fiction-writing '' .
krim came to believe that `` the novel as a form had outlived its vital meaning '' .
he moved in a `` highly intellectual '' group in greenwich village in the late forties , becoming `` internationalized '' overnight .
the work for commonweal was more satisfying than work for commentary `` because of the staff's tiptoeing fear of making a booboo '' .
both magazines were `` rigid with reactionary what-will-t. s. eliot-or-martin buber-think ? ?
'' partisan has failed , krim says , for being `` snob-clannish , overcerebral , europeanish , aristocratically alienated '' from the u.s. .
'' kenyon , sewanee , and hudson operated in an `` anglo-protestant new critical chill '' ; ;
qui s'excuse s'accuse , as the french jewish intellectuals used to say .
god knows that partisan and the rest often were , and remain , guilty of intellectual flatulence .
what krim ignores , in his contempt for history and for accuracy , is that these magazines , partisan foremost , brought about a genuine revolution in the american mind from the mid-thirties to approximately 1950 .
the process of cosmopolitanism had begun in earnest about 1912 , but the first war and the depression virtually stalled that process in its tracks .
screwed , stewed , and tattooed , as krim might say after reading a book about sailors .
) , george jean nathan and alexander woollcott were honored in odd quarters , and the whole booth tarkington , willa catheter ( sic ) , ) pearl , buck , , amy lowell , william lyon phelps atmosphere lay thick as los angeles smog
politics , economics , sociology -- the entire area of life that lies `` between '' -- literature and what krim calls experience -- urgently needed to be dug into .
this partisan above all did ; ;
but it did print good verse and good fiction .
partisan review and the other literary magazines helped to educate , in the best sense , an entire generation .
it is a fact of life that magazines are edited by groups : they have to be or they wouldn't be published at all .
( there are no ) literary movements , `` there are only writers doing their work .
) when krim says mine was as severe a critical-intellectual , environment as can be imagined , he is off his rocker .
the result was his inevitable bedazzlement through , ignorance .
no one was ever educated through bull-sessions in anything other than , to quote him again , `` perfumed bullshit .
the highly intellectual minds that krim says he encountered , in the village did their work in spite of , , not because of , any village atmosphere .
this moment are being bedazzled by half-digested ideas .
the '' , rest will turn beat , or into dentists , or into beat , dentists .
the most appalling aspect of krim's piece is his reflection of the beat aesthetic .
krim's ( aesthetic combines anti-intellectualism , conscious and unconscious naivete ) '' , and a winsome reliance `` upon the '' , natural and upon experience .
my `` touchstones , had , been strictly '' literature and , humanly enough , american literature ( because that was what i wanted to write ) .
there had been signs and portents like the regular toppling over and defacing of the bust of lauro di bosis near the villa lante and in the gianicolo .
the italians felt it .
an italian poet had noticed plainclothes policemen lounging around the area of quirinal palace , the first time since the war .
but , who knew , that might be coming one of these days .
they laughed and , true to national form and manners , never talked long or solemnly on any subject at all , but some of them worried out loud about short memories and ghosts .
berto's the sky is red had been a small masterpiece and in its special way the best book to come out of the war .
on his desk was a slowly accumulating treatment and script of the count of monte cristo .
he was interested in robert musil's the man without qualities .
he was interested in italo svevo .
it was going to be hard going all the way because he hadn't written seriously for a while , except for a few stories , was tired of the old method of realismo he had so successfully used in the sky is red .
he had bought a little piece of property down along the coast of the hard country of calabria that he knew so well .
berto seemed worried , too .
he knew all about the appeal of a black shirt and jackboots to a poor , southern , peasant boy .
berto knew all about fascism .
rimanelli is tough and square-built and adventurous , says what he thinks .
these people were not talking much about it , but you , a foreigner , sensed their apprehension and disappointment .
the english lady said she had to go to vienna for a while .
around that statue in the green park where children play and lovers walk in twos and there is a glowing view of the whole city , in that park are the rows of marble busts of garibaldi's fallen men , the ones who one day rushed out of the porta san pancrazio and , under fire all the way , up the long , straight narrow lane to take , then lose the high ground of the villa doria pamphili .
once out of the gate they had charged straight up the narrow lane .
now the park is filled with marble busts and all the streets in the immediate area have the full and proper names of the men who fell .
our companion was a huge , plain-spoken american sculptor who had been a sixteen-year-old rifleman all across france in 1944 .
`` oh , it would be butchery all right '' , the european said .
it was the last time in history anybody could do something gloriously like that '' .
old world and new world .
he had made an assault once with 180 men .
they went up against an ss unit of comparable size , over a little rise of ground , over an open field .
they made it , killed every last one of the krauts , took the village on schedule .
the whole thing , from the moment when they jumped heavily off the trucks , spread out and moved into position just behind the cover of that slight rise of ground and then jumped off , took maybe between twenty and thirty minutes .
`` bullshit '' , he said softly .
`` i am not familiar with the expression '' .
across the way from the apartment building is a ruined house , shot to hell that day in 1849 , and left that way as a memorial .
like everything else in rome , ruins and monuments alike , that house is lived in .
the english lady really wanted to put a wreath on the garibaldi monument on the 30th of april .
for one thing , there wasn't going to be any ceremony at all this year .
therefore the government wanted no part of him .
) and then there were ecclesiastical matters , the matter of garibaldi's anti-clericalism .
as it happens the english lady is a good catholic herself , but of more liberal political persuasion .
all that the english lady wanted to do was to walk up to the monument and lay a wreath at its base .
and then there were other things .
she also mentioned leaving a little bunch of flowers at the bust of lauro di bosis .
i suffer from mixed feelings .
his bust shows an intense , mustached , fine-featured face .
he was never heard of again .
he was , thus , an early and spectacular victim .
he really didn't know how to fly .
gossip had it ( for gossip is the soul of rome ) that a famous american dancer of the time had paid for both the planes .
it is remembered and has been commemorated by a bust in a park and a square in the city which was renamed piazzo lauro di bosis after the war .
faced with a gesture like di bosis' , i find usually that my sentiments are closer to those of my sculptor friend .
no poetry , no airplanes , no dancers .
it is an ugly business and there are few , if any , wreaths for them .
she was from prague .
she escaped , crawled through the usual mine fields , under barbed wire , was shot at , swam a river , and we finally picked her up in linz .
no airplanes , no nathan hale statements .
i understand very well about lauro di bosis and how his action is symbolic .
the english lady wanted to pay tribute to garibaldi and to lauro di bosis , but she wasn't going to be here to do it .
there was a pretty thorough silence at that point .
i thought : what the hell ? ?
i said i would do it for her .
i admire the english lady .
i also had and have feelings about garibaldi .
though garibaldi's fight was small shakes compared to pickett's charge -- which , like all southerners , i view in almost miltonic terms , fallen angels , etc. -- i associated the two .
so much for all that .
she gave me the names of some people who would surely help pay for the flowers and might even march up to the monument with me .
maybe twenty , thirty , fifty .
the office of business economics ( obe ) of the u.s. department of commerce provides basic measures of the national economy and current analysis of short-run changes in the economic situation and business outlook .
such measures are essential to its job of presenting business and government with the facts required to meet the objective of expanding business and improving the operation of the economy .
for further information contact director , office of business economics , u.s. department of commerce , washington 25 , d.c. .
economic information is made available to businessmen and economists promptly through the monthly survey of current business and its weekly supplement .
technical assistance to small business community
small business management
these publications , written especially for the managers or owners of small businesses , indirectly aid in community development programs .
sba offers administrative management courses , which are designed to improve the management efficiency and `` know-how '' of small business concerns within a community .
through the sba's management counseling program , practical , personalized advice on sound management principles is available upon request to both prospective and established businessmen in a community .
these short , `` streamlined '' meetings usually are sponsored by local banks , chambers of commerce , trade associations , or other civic organizations .
production specialists in sba regional offices are available to help individual small business concerns with technical production problems .
new product potential ; ;
product and market developments ; ;
and industrial uses for agricultural products .
this may be helpful in improving the competitive position of established firms through diversification and expansion or through more economical utilization of plant capacity .
production specialists are available in sba regional offices to help individual small business concerns with technical production problems .
production assistance often takes the form of locating tools or materials which are urgently needed .
property sales assistance
under this program , property sales specialists in the small business administration regional offices help small business concerns to locate federal property for sale and insure that small firms have the opportunity to bid competitively for surplus personal and real property and certain natural resources , including timber from the national forests .
proposed property sales of general interest to small business concerns are publicized through sba regional news releases , and by `` flyers '' directed to the small business concerns .
when suitable equipment is located by the sba representative , the small business concern is contacted and advised on when , where , and how to bid on such property .
section 8-b-2 of the small business act , as amended , authorizes the sba to make a complete inventory of the productive facilities of small business concerns .
it is kept in each regional office for the small firms within the region .
these services include procurement and technical assistance and notice of surplus sales and invitations to bid on government contracts for products and services within the registrants' field of operations .
contact
boston , mass. ; ;
cleveland , ohio ; ;
denver , colo. ; ;
kansas city , mo. ; ;
minneapolis , minn. ; ;
philadelphia , pa. ; ;
san francisco , calif. ; ;
branch offices are located in other large cities .
small business administration , what it is , what it does , sba services for community economic development , and various other useful publications on currently important management , technical production , and marketing topics are available , on request , from small business administration , washington 25 , d.c. .
developing and selling new products , 45 cents ; ;
loans
sba makes loans to individual small business firms , providing them with financing when it is not otherwise available through private lending sources on reasonable terms .
loan policies
the purchase of equipment , facilities , machinery , supplies , or materials ; ;
evidence that other sources of financing are unavailable must be provided .
sba business loans are of two types : `` participation '' and `` direct '' .
direct loans are those made by sba alone .
a small business is defined as one which is independently owned and operated and which is not dominant in its field .
credit requirements
a proposed loan must be for sound purposes or sufficiently secured so as to assure a reasonable chance of repayment .
loan amount
the maximum loan which sba may make to any one borrower is $350,000 .
the term of loans for working capital is 6 years .
for further information , contact sba regional offices in atlanta , ga. ; ;
chicago , ill. ; ;
dallas , tex. ; ;
detroit , mich. ; ;
los angeles , calif. ; ;
new york , n.y. ; ;
richmond , va. ; ;
and seattle , wash. .
printed material
sba business loans ; ;
to cooperatives
the system is composed of three credit services , federal land banks and national farm loan associations , federal intermediate ( short-term ) credit banks , and banks for cooperatives .
as a source of investment capital , the system is beneficial to local communities and encourages the development of industries in rural areas .
the third credit service , banks for cooperatives , exists under authority of the farm credit act of 1933 .
types of loans
eligibility
interest rates
contact
printed material
minerals exploration
requirements
each applicant is required to own or have sufficient interest in the property to be explored .
the applicant pays the rest of the cost , but his own time spent on the work and charges for the use of equipment which he owns may be applied toward his share of the cost .
funds contributed by the government are repaid by a royalty on production from the property .
a 5-percent royalty is paid on any production during the period the contract is in effect ; ;
the royalty applies to both principal and interest , but it never exceeds 5 percent .
information , application forms , and assistance in filing may be obtained from the office of minerals exploration , u.s. department of the interior , washington 25 , d.c. , or from the appropriate regional office listed below .
only a very few of the more advanced ones , such as india and pakistan , have developed systematic techniques of programing .
only rarely is attention given to accurate progress reports and evaluation .
.
it must express the nation's own will and goal .
first , we can encourage responsibility by establishing as conditions for assistance on a substantial and sustained scale the definition of objectives and the assessment of costs .
third , we can offer technical help in the formulation of programs for development which are adapted to the country's objectives and resources .
surveying the needs and requirements over time of broad sectors of the economy , such as transport , agriculture , communication , industry , and power ; ;
and administrative practices which will make possible the more effective review and implementation of programs once established .
.
it must be recognized that countries at different stages of development have very different capabilities of meeting such conditions .
in the more primitive areas , where the capacity to absorb and utilize external assistance is limited , some activities may be of such obvious priority that we may decide to support them before a well worked out program is available .
in such a case , however , we would encourage the recipient country to get on with its programing task , supply it with substantial technical assistance in performing that task , and make it plain that an expansion or even a continuation of our assistance to the country's development was conditional upon programing progress being made .
d .
1 .
a systematic approach to development budgeting and programing is one important kind of self-help .
it is vitally important that the new u.s. aid program should encourage all of them , since the main thrust for development must come from the less developed countries themselves .
external aid can be effective only if it is a complement to self-help .
aid advice is not interference
in establishing conditions of self-help , it is important that we not expect countries to remake themselves in our image .
on the other hand , it is no interference with sovereignty to point out defects where they exist , such as that a plan calls for factories without power to run them , or for institutions without trained personnel to staff them .
2 .
the major areas of self-help are the following : ( a ) the effective mobilizing of resources .
fiscal and monetary policies designed to prevent serious inflation ; ;
( b ) the reduction of dependence on external sources .
it also includes providing for the training of nationals to operate projects after they are completed .
for both economic and political reasons all segments of the population must be able to share in the growth of a country .
( d ) honesty in government .
yet an economy cannot get the most out of its resources if dishonesty , corruption , and favoritism are widespread .
some of the most dramatic successes of communism in winning local support can be traced to the identification -- correct or not -- of communist regimes with personal honesty and pro-western regimes with corruption .
3 .
the united states can use its aid as an incentive to self-help by responding with aid on a sustained basis , tailored to priority needs , to those countries making serious efforts in self-help .
there are other countries where , with skillful diplomacy , we may be able by our aid to give encouragement to those groups in government which would like to press forward with economic and social reform measures to promote growth .
but there will be still other countries where , despite the inadequacy of the level of self-help , we shall deem it wise , for political or military reasons , to give substantial economic assistance .
e .
1 .
.
this is not a short-run goal .
most of our aid will go to those nearing self-sufficiency
how long it will take to show substantial success in this effort will vary greatly from country to country .
these cases in which light is already visible at the other end of the tunnel are ones which over the next few years will absorb the bulk of our capital assistance .
.
meantime , over the decade of the sixties , we can hope that many other countries will ready themselves for the big push into self-sustaining growth .
aid is a long-term process
the whole program must be conceived of as an effort , stretching over a considerable number of years , to alter the basic social and economic conditions in the less developed world .
it is not a tool for dealing with these crises after they have erupted .
the specific reasons for a long-term approach
many of the individual projects for which development assistance is required call for expenditures over lengthy periods .
moreover , on complex projects , design work must be completed and orders for machinery and equipment placed months or even years before construction can commence .
the capital expansion programs of business firms involve multi-year budgeting and the same is true of country development programs .
more importantly , several of the more advanced of the less developed countries have found through experience that they must plan their own complex investment programs for at least 5 years forward and tentatively for considerably more than that if they are to be sure that the various interdependent activities involved are all to take place in the proper sequence .
or a skilled labor force is trained before there are plants available in which they can be employed .
most important of all , the less developed countries must be persuaded to take the necessary steps to allocate and commit their own resources .
they must be persuaded to adopt the other necessary self-help measures which are described in the preceding section .
moreover , once these steps are taken , they may require years to make themselves felt .
3 .
if the less developed countries are to be persuaded to adopt a long-term approach , the united states , as the principal supplier of external aid , must be prepared to give long-term commitments .
the extent to which we can persuade the less developed countries to appraise their own resources , to set targets toward which they should be working , to establish in the light of this forward perspective the most urgent priorities for their immediate attention , and to do the other things which they must do to help themselves , all on a realistic long-term basis , will depend importantly on the incentives we place before them .
perhaps the most important incentive for them will be clear evidence that where other countries have done this kind of home work we have responded with long-term commitments .
then i have seen the pride of country well in the eyes of these young people .
you remember the words of president kennedy a week or so ago , when someone asked him when he was in canada , and dean rusk was in europe , and vice president johnson was in asia , `` who is running the store '' ? ?
general leave to extend
mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that all members who desire to do so may extend their remarks at this point in the record ; ;
the speaker pro tempore .
there was no objection .
mr. addabbo .
i purposely refrained from adding the usual distinction of saying that he was from the state of texas .
for the dignity , the influence , and the power of the legislative branch of our government -- it is a privilege for us to do honor to this great man who represents not alone his own district but all the people of our country .
in this my first year as a member of this body i have experienced many memorable moments .
and , like many of you here present , i hold as the highlight of all , the occasion of my first meeting with the honorable speaker of the house .
he was fatherly in his handling of all subjects with me and tremendously wise in his counsel .
in my short period here i believe that at no time has he been otherwise than the most popular man on both sides of the aisle .
i am highly privileged today to commemorate the brilliant career of this parliamentary giant .
one who is thoroughly human , who affects no dignity , and who is endowed with real ability , genuine worth , and sterling honesty -- all dedicated to secure the best interests of the country he has loved and served so long .
remarks of hon. wayne l. hays of ohio
it is a matter of deep personal satisfaction for me to add my voice to the great and distinguished chorus of my colleagues in this paean of praise , respect , and affection for speaker sam rayburn .
he has become in this half century the grand old man of american history .
here briefly in this humble tribute i have sought for some simple and succinct summation that would define the immense service of this patriot to his country .
it happens that i am a legislator from ohio and that i feel deeply about the needs , the aspirations , the interests of my district and my state .
for sam rayburn never forgot bonham , his home community , and he never forgot texas .
and , if we follow the rayburn pattern , as consciously or by an instinctual political sense i like to think i have followed it , then the very nature of our loyalty to our own immediate areas must necessarily be reflected in the devotion of our services to our country .
there is no such thing as being diligent about national affairs but indifferent about home needs .
this may not be the greatest but it certainly comes close to being the greatest lesson sam rayburn's career , up to this hour , teaches all of us who would aspire to distinction in political life under our processes of government .
through the most rancorous battles of political controversy and the most bitterly fought national and presidential campaigns his character shines as an example of dignity and honesty , forthrightness and nobility .
this means much to the american tradition .
and the name rayburn is one of the most dominant in the history of american politics for the last half century .
but this we know : here is a great life that in every area of american politics gives the american people occasion for pride and that has invested the democratic process with the most decent qualities of honor , decency , and self-respect .
remarks of hon. melvin price of illinois
all but two of my nine terms in the house of representatives has been served under the speakership of sam rayburn .
i have a distinct admiration for this man we honor today because of the humility with which he carries his greatness .
he will be considered not only great among his contemporaries , but as great among all the americans who have played a part in the country's history since the beginning .
speaker rayburn has not limited his leadership as a statesman to his direction of the house in the speaker's chair .
no one has sponsored more progressive and important legislation than has sam rayburn .
but to run the gauntlet of the programs sam rayburn brought into being through his legislative efforts would fill the pages of today's record .
my sincere wish is that he continues to add to this record he sets here today .
mr. monagan .
others may speak of speaker rayburn's uniquely long and devoted service ; ;
i prefer to speak , however , of sam rayburn , the person , rather than sam rayburn , the american institution .
no one could be more devoted than he to the american congress as an institution and more aware of its historical significance in the political history of the world , and i shall never forget his moving talks , delivered in simple yet eloquent words , upon the meaning of our jobs as representatives in the operation of representative government and their importance in the context of today's assault upon popular government .
in this role of father confessor , he has always been most characteristic and most helpful .
origin of state automobile practices .
at least one state vehicle was in existence in 1917 .
the automobile maintenance unit , or motor pool , came into existence in 1942 and has been responsible for centralized maintenance and management of state-owned transportation since that time .
cars were operated in 1959 for an average $.027 per mile .
unit prices to the state are considerably lower than to the general public because of quantity purchases and no payment of state sales or federal excise taxes .
the legislature's role in policy determination concerning state-owned vehicles has been confined almost exclusively to appropriating funds for vehicles .
meaningful policies include : ( a ) kinds of cars the state should own , ( b ) when cars should be traded , ( c ) the need and assignment of vehicles , ( d ) use of cars in lieu of mileage allowances , ( e ) employees taking cars home , and ( f ) need for liability insurance on state automobiles .
the state purchases and assigns grades of cars according to need and position status of driver and use of vehicle .
the purchase of compact ( economy ) cars is being made currently on a test basis .
cars are traded mostly on a three-year basis in the interest of economy .
the factors governing need and assignment of cars are flexible according to circumstances .
unsuccessful efforts have been made to replace high mileage allowances with state automobiles .
it is reasonably economical for the state to have drivers garage state cars at their homes .
the state has recently undertaken liability insurance for drivers of state cars .
a survey of practices and/or policies in other states concerning assignment and use of state automobiles reveals several points for comparison with rhode island's practices .
two other states provide vehicles , but only with legislative approval .
twenty-six states operate a central motor pool for acquisition , allocation and/or maintenance of state-owned vehicles .
of these states the average `` change-over '' point ( at which a car is substituted for allowances ) is 13,200 miles per year .
mileage allowances for state employees are of two types : ( a ) actual mileage and ( b ) fixed monthly allowances .
fixed monthly allowances are reimbursements for the same purpose except on a non-itemized basis .
rhode island's reimburseable rate of $.07 per mile for use of personally-owned cars compares favorably with other states' rates .
rhode island's rate of $.07 per mile is considerably lower than reimburseable rates in the federal government and in industry nationally which approximate a $.09 per mile average .
the travel regulations , requirements and procedures governing reimbursement are controlled properly and not overly restrictive .
they have a great advantage in ease of audit time and payment .
flat payments over $50 per month are more expensive to the state than the assignment of state-owned vehicles .
travel allowances , including subsistence , have been revised by administrative officials recently and compare favorably with other states' allowances .
travel allowances are well-regulated and pose little problem in administration and/or audit control .
general background .
few records are available concerning the subject prior to 1940 .
the registry of motor vehicles indicates that at least one state automobile was registered as far back as 1917 .
the best reason that can be advanced for the state adopting the practice was the advent of expanded highway construction during the 1920s and '30s .
using privately-owned vehicles was a personal hardship for such employees , and the matter of providing state transportation was felt perfectly justifiable .
and reasons other than employee need contributed to the growth .
this rate of increase does not signify anything in itself .
but it does show that automobiles have increased steadily over the years and in almost the same proportion to the increase of state employees .
whether there were too few automobiles in 1940 or too many now is problematical .
history and operation of the motor pool .
prior to 1942 , automobiles were the individual responsibility of the agency to which assigned .
it embraced determining when to purchase and when to trade vehicles , who was to drive , when and where repairs were to be made , where gasoline and automobile services were to be obtained and other allied matters .
gasoline and automobile tires were rationed commodities .
it met these problems by the creation of the state automobile maintenance unit ( more popularly called the motor pool ) , a centralized operation for the maintenance and control of all state transportation .
it was organizationally the responsibility of the department of public works and was financed on a rotary fund basis with each agency of government contributing to the pool's operation .
the management of state-owned vehicles since that time has been described in a recent report in the following manner : ``
the agencies of government are now billed for the actual cost of services provided to each passenger car rather than the prior uniform charge for all cars .
one indication of the merits of the new management is found in the fact that during the period 1951-1956 , while total annual mileage put on the vehicles increased 35% , the total maintenance cost increased only 11% .
in order to further refine the management of passenger vehicles , on july 1 , 1958 , the actual title to every vehicle was transferred , by executive order , to the division of methods , research and office services .
( note : so far as state police cars are concerned , only their replacement is under this division ) .
moreover , it allows the present management to reassign vehicles so that mileage will be more uniformly distributed throughout the fleet ; ;
the motor pool is a completely centralized and mechanized operation .
it contracts with outside repair garages for much of the latter work .
pool records reveal in detail the cost per mile and miles per gallon of each vehicle , the miles traveled in one year or three years , the periods when vehicle costs become excessive , and when cars should be traded for sound economies .
in 1959-60 , vehicles averaged an operating cost of $.027 per mile .
they estimate further that with sufficient experience and when cost-data of compact cars is compiled , the break-even point may be reduced to 7,500 miles of travel per year .
one matter of concern to the complete effectiveness of pool operations is the lack of adequate central garage facilities .
good facilities would be a decided help to pool operations and probably reduce vehicle costs even more .
the purchase of state-owned vehicles is handled in the same manner as all other purchases of the state .
bids are evaluated by the division of purchases with the assistance of pool staff , and awards for the purchase of the automobiles are made to the lowest responsible bidders .
the reasons are obvious : ( 1 ) the state is buying in quantity , and ( 2 ) it has no federal excise or state sales tax to pay .
in that ownership of all vehicles rests with the state motor pool , cars are paid for with funds appropriated to the agencies but transferred to the rotary fund mentioned earlier .
the assignment and use of vehicles after purchase is another matter to be covered in detail later .
probably the most important of all matters for review are the broad administrative policies governing the purchase , assignment , use , and management of state vehicles .
the more meaningful policies have been left to the judgment of the chief administrative officer of the state -- the director of administration .
there was a time some years ago when local taxation by the cities and towns was sufficient to support their own operations and a part of the cost of the state government as well .
this tax was discontinued in 1936 .
at the same time there has been an upgrading and expansion of municipal services as well .
this financial assistance from the state has become necessary because the local governments themselves found the property tax , or at least at the rates then existing , insufficient for their requirements .
notwithstanding state aid , the local governments are continuing to seek additional revenue of their own by strengthening the property tax .
taxation of tangible movable property in rhode island has been generally of a `` hands off '' nature due possibly to several reasons : ( 1 ) local assessors , in the main , are not well paid and have inadequate office staffs , ( 2 ) the numerous categories of this component of personal property make locating extremely difficult , and ( 3 ) the inexperience of the majority of assessors in evaluating this type of property .
among the many problems in the taxing of personal property , and of movable tangible property in particular , two are significant : ( 1 ) situs , ( 2 ) fair and equitable assessment of value .
situs of property .
rhode island law specifies that all real estate is taxable in the town in which it is situated .
in defining personal property , it specifically mentions `` all ships or vessels , at home or abroad '' .
although a similar situs for tangible property is mentioned in the statute , this is cancelled out by the provision that definite kinds of property `` and all other tangible property '' situated or being in any town is taxable where the property is situated .
both boats and aircraft would fall within this category , as well as motor vehicles .
obviously , it would be impossible to determine where every vehicle might be on the 31st day of december .
a recent example of this problem is the flying of six airplanes , on december 31 , 1960 , from the newport airpark in middletown , to the north central airport in smithfield .
middletown bases its claim on the general provision of the law that `` all rateable property , both tangible and intangible , shall be taxed to the owner thereof in the town in which such owner shall have had his actual place of abode for the larger portion of the twelve ( 12 ) months next preceding the first day of april in each year '' .
assessment of value .
this accounts for the wide variance in assessment practices of movable tangible property in the various municipalities in rhode island .
the rhode island public expenditure council in its publication once commented : ``
an adequately staffed and equipped state assessing office could apply uniform methods and standards which would go far toward producing equitable assessments on all properties throughout the state .
the institute of public administration , in its report to the state fiscal study commission in 1959 , recommended `` consolidating and centralizing all aspects of property tax administration in a single state agency professionally organized and equipped for the job '' .
practices in rhode island .
the replies from each individual town are not given in detail because the questions asked the personal opinion of the several assessors and are not necessarily the established policy of the town in each case .
these opinions of the assessors are of significance in indicating what their thinking seems to be at the present time .
the wording of the question was quite general and may have been subject to different interpretations .
in two cases , airplanes only were indicated .
boats were indicated specifically by only one of the five towns known to tax boats .
so few answered the question relating to their efforts to assess movable property that the results are inconclusive .
of greater interest is a question as to whether movable property was assessed according to its location or ownership .
twenty-seven assessors stated that they were in favor of improved means for assessing movable personal property , and only five were opposed .
on this point there was fairly general agreement that assessors would like to do more than they are doing now .
another question that was asked of the assessors was whether they favored the assessment of movable property at its location or at the residence of the owner .
ten others made no reply .
there was one vote for location being the place where the property is situated for the greater portion of the twelve months preceding the assessment date .
the need for greater knowledge is evident from their replies .
taxing of boats .
assessors in rhode island are charged not only with placing a valuation upon real and personal property , but they also have the responsibility to raise by a tax `` a sum not less than nor more than '' a specified amount as ordered by a city council or financial town meeting .
through their professional organization , the rhode island tax officials association the question of taxing boats long has been debated and discussed .
it has been estimated that the value of boats in rhode island waters is something in excess of fifty million dollars , excluding commercial boats .
it is known that at least five towns ( barrington , bristol , narragansett , newport and westerly ) place some value on some boats for tax purposes .
no one really knows how many boats there actually are or what their aggregate value may be .
only a few more than 10,000 boats had been registered with the division of harbors and rivers at the end of the 1960 boating season , but many had been taken out of the water early when the threat of a hurricane brought the season to an early close .
local industry's investment in rhode island was the big story in 1960's industrial development effort .
a new post-world war 2 , record .
what made these new location figures particularly impressive was the fact that although 1960 was a year of mild business recession throughout the nation , rhode island scored marked progress in new industry , new plants , and new jobs .
leading firms that arranged their own financing included speidel corporation , cornell-dubilier , photek , inc. division of textron , narragansett gray iron foundry , w. r. cobb company , and mays manufacturing company .
industrial division personnel worked with 54 out-of-state and 97 rhode island concerns during 1960 , many of whom are still interested in a rhode island location .
aids to small business
our office of foreign and domestic commerce carries on a vigorous program , directly aimed at solving and expediting the problems of manufacturers in the lower employment categories .
assistance is rendered to interested rhode island businessmen concerning interpretation of bid invitations , where to obtain specifications , and follow-ups concerning qualification .
in addition , the office's domestic trade program provided consultant services to those seeking information on establishment of new businesses ; ;
details on marketing ; ;
the office of foreign and domestic commerce is also active in the field of international trade , assisting rhode island firms in developing and enlarging markets abroad .
locating foreign agents , buyers , distributors , etc. ; ;
during the year 1960 , this office supplied 954 visitors with information related to foreign and domestic commerce , and made 73 field visits .
our media advertising continued , during 1960 , its previous effective program that stressed such specifics as 100% financing , plant availabilities , and location advantages .
to reach a still greater audience of location-minded manufacturers , our industrial advertising budget for the fiscal year was increased from $32,000 to $40,000 , and the industrial building authority's financial participation was upped from $17,000 to $20,000 .
in addition to the regular schedule , advertisements were run for maximum impact in special editions of the new york times , boston herald , american banker , electronic news and , for local promotion , the providence sunday journal .
the direct mail campaign consisted of 3 intra-state mailings of 1680 letters each and 6 out-of-state directed to electronics , plastics , pharmaceutical , and business machine manufacturers , and to publishers .
the 1960 advertising campaign brought a total of 239 inquiries ; ;
two hundred and nineteen were received from 35 of our 50 united states and 11 came from foreign countries .
among foreign countries responding were germany , canada , brazil and india .
an important operation in soliciting industrial locations involves what we term `` missionary calls '' by one of this division's industrial promotion specialists .
more than 25 carefully selected cities were visited , including new york , brooklyn , long island city , newark , elizabeth , stamford , waterbury , new haven , bridgeport , boston , cambridge , worcester , and waltham .
we received 76 out-of-state visitors interested in investigating rhode island's industrial advantages , and industrial division personnel made 55 out-of-state follow-up visits .
during 1960 , two important conferences were organized by the development council's industrial division .
its purpose was to find ways of offsetting the united states' declining balance of trade for 1958 and 1959 .
on october 8th of last year , the industrial division sponsored the governor's conference on industrial development at the former henry barnard school .
morning sessions included addresses by ward miller , jr. of the u. s. dept. of commerce .
workshop sessions in the afternoon featured development executives from pennsylvania , connecticut and maine , and rounded out a rewarding program .
devoted to the improvement in business climate and increase in industrial construction in rhode island , it has proved a valuable mailing piece for this division .
mailings and publications
1184 copies of the r. i. directory of manufacturers were distributed : 643 in-state and 541 out-of-state .
additional promotional activities included organizing the dedication program for operation turnkey , the new automated post office , and a conference with representatives of brown university , providence college , and university of rhode island , and eight electronics concerns regarding the inauguration of a training program for electronics personnel .
stated in its simplest terms , the main job of the planning division is to plan for the future of the state of rhode island .
two years ago , the institute of public administration issued an extremely comprehensive report entitled `` state-local relations in metropolitan rhode island .
these objectives are stated here because of their importance in understanding the current activities of the planning division .
first priority will be given to the preparation of a meaningful state guide plan to serve as a background for all other planning activities in the state .
recognizing the truth of the statement by the institute of public administration that `` metropolian planning ( in rhode island ) means , or should mean , state planning '' , the state guide plan will take into account the metropolitan nature of many of rhode island's problems .
it will continue to be an objective of this division to encourage the acceptance of planning as a proper and continuing responsibility of local government .
( 4 )
among the operating departments of the state ; ;
and on a regional basis between the six new england states .
on the basis that all citizens of the state are entitled to benefit equally in the development of its resources , plans for the provision of essential services ( such as water ) will be based on need regardless of arbitrary political boundaries , within the framework of the state plan .
the state development budget will reflect the capital needs of all the state agencies and the priority of the projects in the budget will be based on the state plan .
in preparing the state guide plan , particular attention will be given means of strengthening the economy of the state through the development of industry and recreation .
and the preparation of the state development budget .
the planning division has embarked on the most complete and comprehensive state planning program in the nation .
the work program , as it was originally proposed , was to take five years to complete .
the basic mapping phase of the program has been completed and the inventory phase is scheduled for completion july 1 , 1961 .
since accurate base maps are necessary for any planning program , the first step taken by the planning division to implement the long-range state plan has been to prepare two series of base maps -- one at a scale of 1 inch to a mile , and the second a series of 26 sheets at a scale of 1 inch to 2000 feet , covering the entire state .
inventory
this phase consists of four items : urban land use , rural land use , physical features and public utility service areas .
the urban land use study carried out by the planning division staff has consisted of identifying and mapping all urban land uses which are of significance to statewide planning .
the mapping of important physical features such as slopes and types of soil and the collection of all available information pertaining to public utility service areas are being conducted as staff projects and , like the other two inventory projects , are scheduled for completion july 1 , 1961 .
the collection of information is meaningless unless it is understood and used for a definite purpose .
it is not within the scope of this report to elaborate in any great detail upon special districts in rhode island .
there are forty-seven special district governments in rhode island ( excluding two regional school districts , four housing authorities , and the kent county water authority ) .
unlike cities and towns , however , they do not have to submit any financial statements to the state bureau of audits .
in addition to the collection of service charges , the special districts levy annual property taxes of approximately $450,000 .
comparative data .
included in the findings are : 1 .
the other four states end on varying dates : alabama ( sept. 30 ) , new york ( march 31 ) , pennsylvania ( may 31 ) , and texas ( august 31 ) .
in sixteen states , the fiscal year ending of the cities ( june 30 ) is the same as that of the state : alaska , arizona , california , delaware , massachusetts , montana , nevada , new mexico , north carolina , north dakota , oklahoma , oregon , vermont , west virginia , wyoming , and hawaii ) .
in eleven states , the fiscal year of the cities ends on december 31 , while the state fiscal year ends on june 30 ( arkansas , colorado , indiana , kansas , new hampshire , new jersey , ohio , south dakota , utah , washington , and wisconsin ) .
in eight states whose fiscal years close on june 30 , a majority of their cities close their fiscal year on december 31 : :
5 .
6 .
7 .
all of its cities close their fiscal years on december 31 .
however , only illinois , oregon , louisiana and rhode island have a situation in which the sundry units of government vary widely in relation to fiscal uniformity .
advantages .
he listed among the values of fiscal uniformity : 1 .
2 .
it enables towns to make more economical purchases and to take advantage of cash discounts .
the uniform fiscal year promotes more careful budgeting and strengthens control over expenditures .
4 .
this greatly simplifies the town's bookkeeping and financial reporting .
the uniform fiscal year eliminates interest charges on money borrowed in the form of tax anticipation notes .
6 .
when towns have the same fiscal year it is relatively easy to make meaningful comparisons ; ;
towns having different fiscal years are difficult to compare .
borrowing in anticipation of current taxes and other revenues is a routine procedure of the majority of municipalities at all times .
in any event it is a form of borrowing which could be and should be rendered unnecessary .
this type of borrowing can be reduced to a minimum if quarterly installment payment of taxes is instituted and the first payment placed near the opening of the fiscal year .
it should be noted that there are other and equally important reasons for establishing meaningful intergovernmental reporting bases on a uniform fiscal year .
both units of government contribute increasingly large sums of money to the several local governments in this state as indicated below :
but with the growth of state and federal fiscal aid , the emphasis on equalization , and the state-local sharing of responsibility for certain important functions , this is no longer true .
disadvantages .
these involve more the mechanics employed in adjusting to fiscal uniformity than they do actual disadvantages to the principle .
the other , is how to finance the transition .
this is an inherent part of adjusting fiscal calendars .
but cooperation and understanding between local officials and the citizenry help lessen this problem .
this will be covered more fully later .
fortunately , there are no cities or towns in the state , with one or two possible exceptions that are in too difficult a position to finance the proposed change .
adjusting the fiscal calendars
the type of program desired can be determined by the nature and extent of the adjustments needed .
first , the present situation is too varied to be systematized by any single formula .
there are at least two problems to consider : one is a matter of adjusting the fiscal calendar ; ;
the latter matter is considered in detail in a later section .
plans vary from the `` talking stage '' to establishing special committees to accomplish this end .
an analysis of the fiscal tax collection year calendars throughout the state indicates that transition may not be as painful as is commonly thought .
the adjustments needed to establish a uniform and coordinated fiscal tax collection year calendar throughout rhode island , based on a july 1 to june 30 year , are shown below .
six cities and towns are presently on a july 1 to june 30 fiscal year and have coordinated their tax collection year with it .
these municipalities include : barrington , lincoln , middletown , newport , north kingstown , and south kingstown .
one town and one city , coventry and east providence , require an adjustment of their fiscal year only .
adjustment of tax collection year .
these cities and towns include bristol , glocester , pawtucket , cumberland , central falls , and woonsocket .
two cities to be considered , providence and cranston , are an enigma .
however , neither of these two cities is on the desired july 1 to june 30 fiscal year .
in that both cities end their fiscal years on september 30 , they could levy taxes for an interim period of nine months , commencing with september 30 and ending with june 30 .
both would start their new fiscal year on july 1 .
and august 15 , november 15 , february 17 , and may 15 , ( cranston ) .
varying adjustments .
all of these towns will require adjustments of both their fiscal and tax collection years .
methods of financing adjustments
it should be emphasized strongly that adjustments in fiscal dates or adoption of interim budgets do not necessarily mean financing over and above normal governmental requirements .
it is only a matter of adjusting accounting methods , careful fiscal planning and management , or some like combination of techniques .
fortunately , such cases in rhode island are more the exception than the rule .
in addition , no two rhode island communities are identical in relation to their over-all financial condition .
each situation must be studied and a plan developed that takes into consideration such factors as the effect of the existing and prospective tax calendars , the financial condition of the treasuries , and the length of the transition interval .
the financial problem , where it exists , usually stems from the adoption of a budget for the transitional or adjustment period .
rhode island heritage week proclamation by john a. notte , jr. , governor
it commemorates the 185th anniversary of rhode island's independence when , upon may 4 , 1776 , the general assembly , by its action , established the first free republic in the new world .
on april 30 , ceremonies commemorating the departure of these volunteers will take place at 1:00 p.m. at the dexter training grounds in providence .
and now , therefore , do i , john a. notte , jr. , governor of the state of rhode island and providence plantations , proclaim the week of april 29th to may 7th , 1961 , as rhode island heritage week , advising our citizens that throughout this week many historic houses and beautiful gardens will be open to visitors as well as industrial plants , craft shops , museums and libraries and i earnestly urge all to take advantage of these opportunities to see as many of these places as they can during this outstanding week .
governor
the year 1961 marks the fourteenth anniversary of the unification of our armed forces under the national security act of 1947 .
our investment in this effort , the greatest in our nation's history , reflects our determination to ensure the peace and the future of freedom .
as the president has said , `` only when our arms are sufficient beyond doubt can we be certain that they will never be employed '' .
it is the purpose of armed forces day to give americans an opportunity to honor men of the armed forces , those who have made the supreme sacrifice , those who remain to preserve our security .
now , therefore , do i , john a. notte , jr. , governor of the state of rhode island and providence plantations , proclaim saturday , may 20th , 1961 , as armed forces day , reminding our citizens that we should rededicate ourselves to our nation , respecting the uniforms as the guardians of our precious liberty .
governor
the president of the united states , pursuant to a joint resolution of congress , has issued a proclamation each year since 1933 declaring may 22nd to be national maritime day .
this voyage was the first successful crossing of the atlantic under steam propulsion .
the merchant marine is the `` fourth arm of defense '' , for a strong and effective american merchant marine is essential to the economy and security of our nation .
and now , therefore , do i , john a. notte , jr. , governor of the state of rhode island and providence plantations , proclaim monday , may 22nd , 1961 , as national maritime day , reminding our citizens that american merchant ships and american seamen are ready at all times to serve our nation in the cause of freedom and justice .
governor
the miss rhode island pageant is sponsored by the rhode island junior chamber of commerce as a part of the nation-wide search for the typical american girl -- a miss america from rhode island .
the ideal girl -- possessed of talent , poise , intelligence , personality and beauty of face and figure -- is chosen each year to represent rhode island .
proceeds realized from these pageants are used by the jaycees to help support their various youth , health , welfare and community betterment activities throughout the state .
she hopes that all will support the contestants from our own community by attending our pageants and the state pageant june 17 ; ;
in testimony whereof , i have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the state to be affixed this 11th day of june , in the year of our lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth .
united nations day proclamation by john a. notte , jr. , governor
the united nations charter sets forth standards which , if adhered to , will promote peace and justice throughout the world .
the world desperately needs the united nations .
and now , therefore , do i , john a. notte , jr. , governor of the state of rhode island and providence plantations , proclaim tuesday , october 24th , 1961 , as united nations day , calling upon all our citizens to engage in appropriate observances , demonstrating faith in the united nations and thereby contributing to a better understanding of the aims of the united nations throughout the land .
governor
the ballet originated in italy about 1450 .
ballet flowered in italy during the next hundred years , and about 1550 was carried to france when the italian princess , catherine de medicis , married the king of france .
dances alternated with sung or spoken verses .
they were placed either in the middle of the acts or in the intermissions .
and now , therefore , do i , john a. notte , jr. , governor of the state of rhode island and providence plantations , proclaim the week of monday , november 13 , 1961 , as the state ballet of rhode island week , requesting all rhode islanders to give special attention to this unusual event which should contribute to the cultural life of the state .
governor
as another thanksgiving draws near , let us take time out from the often hectic pace of our lives to try and recapture the feelings that filled the hearts of the pilgrims on the first thanksgiving .
they had been through trying times , but their faith in the almighty had given them the courage and the strength to meet and overcome the many problems and difficulties that were the price they had to pay for freedom .
they could not guess that from their concepts of liberty and freedom would some day be born a new nation that for years would be the symbol of hope to the oppressed countries of the world .
we who are living today may learn a valuable lesson from those who celebrated the first thanksgiving day .
we have only to compare the liberty and high standard of living we enjoy in this great country with the oppression and frugality of other nations to realize with humble gratitude that god's providence has been with us since the very beginning of our country .
with world peace constantly being threatened , most of us regard the future skeptically , and even with fear .
now , therefore , do i , john a. notte , jr. , governor of the state of rhode island and providence plantations , proclaim thursday , november 23rd , 1961 , as thanksgiving day ,
in testimony whereof , i have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the state to be affixed this 21st day of november , in the year of our lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one and of independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth .
governor
in view of the increasing shortage of usable surface and ground water in many parts of the nation and the importance of finding new sources of supply to meet its present and future water needs , it is the policy of the congress to provide for the development of practicable low-cost means for the large-scale production of water of a quality suitable for municipal , industrial , agricultural , and other beneficial consumptive uses from saline water , and for studies and research related thereto .
sec. 2 .
conduct , encourage , and promote fundamental scientific research and basic studies to develop the best and most economical processes and methods for converting saline water into water suitable for beneficial consumptive purposes ; ;
conduct engineering research and technical development work to determine , by laboratory and pilot plant testing , the results of the research and studies aforesaid in order to develop processes and plant designs to the point where they can be demonstrated on a large and practical scale ; ;
recommend to the congress from time to time authorization for construction and operation , or for participation in the construction and operation , of a demonstration plant for any process which he determines , on the basis of subsections ( a ) and ( b ) above , has great promise of accomplishing the purposes of this act , such recommendation to be accompanied by a report on the size , location , and cost of the proposed plant and the engineering and economic details with respect thereto ; ;
study methods for the recovery and marketing of commercially valuable byproducts resulting from the conversion of saline water ; ;
undertake economic studies and surveys to determine present and prospective costs of producing water for beneficial consumptive purposes in various parts of the united states by the leading saline water processes as compared with other standard methods .
in carrying out his functions under section 2 of this act , the secretary may -- ( a )
( b )
( c )
( d )
( e )
( f )
( g )
( h )
( i )
( j )
and ( k )
sec. 4 .
research and development activities undertaken by the secretary shall be coordinated or conducted jointly with the department of defense to the end that developments under this act which are primarily of a civil nature will contribute to the defense of the nation and that developments which are primarily of a military nature will , to the greatest practicable extent compatible with military and security requirements , be available to advance the purposes of this act and to strengthen the civil economy of the nation .
( b )
this subsection shall not be so construed as to deprive the owner of any background patent relating thereto of such rights as he may have thereunder .
( a )
all moneys received from dispositions under this section shall be paid into the treasury as miscellaneous receipts ) .
nothing in the act shall be construed to alter existing law with respect to the ownership and control of water .
the secretary shall make reports to the president and the congress at the beginning of each regular session of the action taken or instituted by him under the provisions of this act and of prospective action during the ensuing year .
the secretary of the interior may issue rules and regulations to effectuate the purposes of this act .
there are authorized to be appropriated such sums , to remain available until expended , as may be necessary , but not more than $75,000,000 in all , ( a ) to carry out the provisions of this act during the fiscal years 1962 to 1967 , inclusive ; ;
and ( c ) to finance , for not more than three years beyond the end of said period , such activities as are required to correlate , coordinate , and round out the results of studies and research undertaken pursuant to this act : provided , that funds available in any one year for research and development may , subject to the approval of the secretary of state to assure that such activities are consistent with the foreign policy objectives of the united states , be expended in cooperation with public or private agencies in foreign countries in the development of processes useful to the program in the united states : and provided further , that every such contract or agreement made with any public or private agency in a foreign country shall contain provisions effective to insure that the results or information developed in connection therewith shall be available without cost to the united states for the use of the united states throughout the world and for the use of the general public within the united states .
section 4 of the joint resolution of september 2 , 1958 ( 72 stat. 1707 ; ;
the authority of the secretary of the interior under this joint resolution to construct , operate , and maintain demonstration plants shall terminate upon the expiration of twelve years after the date on which this joint resolution is approved .
upon such sale , there shall be returned to any state or public agency which has contributed financial assistance under section 3 of this joint resolution a proper share of the net proceeds of the sale .
be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled , that the secretary of the interior is hereby authorized and directed to make or cause to be made a study covering -- ( 1 )
( 2 )
( 3 )
right-of-entry only and ( b )
( 4 )
( 5 )
and ( 6 )
sec. 2 .
the secretary of the interior or any duly authorized representative shall be entitled to admission to , and to require reports from the operator of , any metal or nonmetallic mine which is in a state ( excluding any coal or lignite mine ) , the products of which regularly enter commerce or the operations of which substantially affect commerce , for the purpose of gathering data and information necessary for the study authorized in the first section of this act .
as used in this section -- ( 1 )
and ( 2 )
sec. 3 .
approved september 26 , 1961 .
sec. 2 .
subject to the limitations of this act , the secretary shall make stabilization payments to small domestic producers upon presentation of evidence satisfactory to him of their status as such producers and of the sale by them of newly mined ores , or concentrates produced therefrom , as provided in this act .
( b )
( c )
( d )
the maximum amount of such payments which may be made on account of such sales made during the calendar year 1963 shall not exceed $4,500,000 ; ;
and the maximum amount of such payments which may be made on account of such sales made during the calendar year 1965 shall not exceed $3,500,000 .
3 .
a .
during fiscal year 1959 , six courses were conducted : forensic pathology , application of histochemistry to pathology , pathology of diseases of laboratory animals , ophthalmic pathology , pathology of the oral regions , and a cardiovasculatory pathology seminar .
from 1 july 1960 through 31 january 1961 , six courses were conducted : workshop in resident training in pathology , pathology of diseases of laboratory animals , application of histochemistry of pathology , orthopedic pathology , forensic sciences symposium , and forensic pathology .
during fiscal years 1959 and 1960 , there were 139 military and civilian students who came to the institute for varying periods of special instruction .
research :
among the specific areas of concentration in which the staff is engaged , are such projects as biological and biochemical studies of the effects of microwaves ; ;
investigation of respiratory diseases of laboratory animals ; ;
neuropathology of nuclear and cosmic radiation ; ;
evaluation of histochemical techniques ; ;
there has been an increase in cooperative research with other federal agencies and civilian institutions .
also , the defense atomic support agency sponsored a long-range study at this institute on the response of massive suspension cultures of mammalian cells to acute radiation .
the investigation of the relationship of diphosphopyridine nucleotide synthesizine enzyme to tumor growth ; ;
and the study of structural changes in m. leprae and other mycobacteria .
1 .
in addition to maintaining a permanent central file of illustrations of diseases , wounds , and injuries of military importance , it provides facilities for clinical photography , photomicrography , and medical arts , and operates a printing plant , by permission of congressional committee , for publication of an `` atlas of tumor pathology '' .
2 .
of these exhibits , 154 were newly constructed .
3 .
members of the medical illustration service lectured and conducted demonstrations on the use of training aids to military personnel and various civilian medical organizations .
4 .
and overhead projector transparency sets on the subjects of military sanitation : first aid for soldiers ; ;
the emergency medical treatment unit , phase 1 ; ;
fifty lantern slide teaching sets on the subject of `` emergency war surgery ( nato ) '' were assembled and distributed to the medical military services of foreign governments associated with nato and south-east asia treaty organization .
5 .
illustrations were prepared for 11 department of the army manuals and one graphic training aid .
the senate subcommittee on reorganization and international organizations was provided samples of visual aids on first aid and personal health produced by the medical illustration service .
six fascicles ( 10,000 copies each ) of the `` atlas of tumor pathology '' were completed during the period of this report .
this consists of 25 individual registries , two of which were added during fiscal years 1959-1960 ( the registry of forensic pathology and the testicular tumor registry ) .
the american registry of pathology operates as a cooperative enterprise in medical research and education between the armed forces institute of pathology and the civilian medical profession on a national and international basis , under such conditions as may be agreed upon between the national research council and the surgeons general of the army , navy , and air force .
during the period of this report , 37,470 new cases were entered into the various registries .
in this same period , six new fascicles of the atlas of tumor pathology were published and distributed to medical centers world-wide .
forty-five new clinico-pathologic conferences were prepared , bringing the total to 61 available for loan distribution .
during this period , 7,827 teaching sets were distributed on loan .
the demand for teaching sets continues unabated since they provide the means for the military physicians to review the pathology of selected disease processes or organ systems for review of basic sciences and correlation of clinical physiological behavior with structural changes .
in fiscal year 1959 , the medical museum was moved to chase hall , a temporary building on independence avenue at ninth street , southwest , and continued to display to the public the achievements of the armed forces medical services .
of the 375 exhibits ( of all types ) shown , 161 were new or refurbished .
eighty-five specimens were loaned for study purposes .
a three-dimensional exhibit depicting `` a century of naval medicine '' was formally presented to the director by george s. squibb , great-grandson of the founder of e. r. squibb and sons , for permanent display in the museum .
during the period , the laboratory rendered centralized macropathological service to qualified requesters .
three hundred five copies of the manual of macropathological techniques were distributed .
during fiscal years 1959 and 1960 , there were 795,586 visitors to the museum .
throughout the period and during the movement operation , the museum continued its functional support of the armed forces institute of pathology .
the armed forces medical publication agency , established in 1949 , has published , since january 1950 , the united states armed forces medical journal as a triservice publication to furnish material of professional interest to medical department officers of the three military services .
these publications replaced the u. s. naval medical bulletin , published continuously from 1907 through 1959 , as well as the navy's hospital corps quarterly and the bulletin of the u. s. army medical department , published from 1922 to 1949 .
estimated annual savings resulting from publication of the journal and bulletin on a triservice basis , as compared with the cost of producing separate periodicals for each service , were between $65,000 and $70,000 .
from 1 july 1958 to 30 june 1960 , 24 numbers of the journal and nine of the bulletin were published .
the council on national defense of the american medical association contributed a brief article to each issue entitled , `` this is your a.m.a. '' .
this resulted in an improved appearance , but was followed by an increase in printing cost that necessitated the institution of major economies to keep within the total of allocated funds .
two special issues were published , one for november 1959 on space medicine , the other the tenth anniversary issue for january 1960 .
replacing the discontinued medical technicians bulletin , publication of which was suspended with the november-december 1959 issue , a section called `` technical notes '' was inaugurated on a bimonthly basis beginning with the april 1960 issue .
in may 1960 , the armed forces institute of pathology began a series of articles on the `` medical museum '' , and in june , the institute started contributing a regular monthly `` case for diagnosis '' .
the armed forces epidemiological board agreed to submit each month a report for one of its 12 commissions , so that each commission will report once a year on some phase of its work calculated to be of particular interest and value to medical officers of the armed forces .
another recent achievement was the successful development of a method for the complete combustion in a bomb calorimeter of a metal in fluorine when the product is relatively non-volatile .
similar measurements are being initiated to resolve a large discrepancy in the heat of formation of another important combustion product , beryllium fluoride .
in one of these , an exploding-wire device to study systems thermodynamically up to 6,000 af and 100 atmospheres pressure , a major goal was achieved .
this agreement is considered very good for such short time intervals .
the element is inserted in the discharge circuit in place of the exploding wire , and the calorimetric heating of the element is measured with high accuracy .
a high-speed shutter has been developed in order to permit photographic observation of any portion of the electrical wire explosion .
using edgerton's method , the fast-closing action is obtained from the blackening of a window by exploding a series of parallel lead wires .
the opening action is obtained when a capacitor , charged to high voltage , is suddenly discharged through the foil .
experiments have shown that the shutter is 75 percent open in about 60-80 microseconds .
laboratory measurements of interstellar radio spectra .
the detection and study of such line spectra would add considerably to present information on interstellar gas clouds and , perhaps , planetary atmospheres .
somewhat less likely sources are the heavier hydrides sh , sih , and aj .
in interstellar gas , concentrations as low as af molecules per af may be sufficient , as compared to the af hydrogen atom's af required for detection of the 21-cm line .
therefore , only with precise foreknowledge of the line frequencies is an astronomical search for the radio spectra of these molecules feasible .
since conventional methods are insensitive at the low frequencies of these molecular transitions , the paramagnetic resonance method is being used instead .
the first diatomic hydride investigated by the paramagnetic resonance method was the oh radical .
the frequencies are 1665.32 and 1667.36 af , with an uncertainty of 0.10 af .
extraterrestrial observations have yet to be reported .
low temperature thermometry .
the efforts and accomplishments fall into three main categories : absolute thermometry based upon the velocity of sound in helium gas , secondary thermometry involving principally studies of the behavior of germanium resistors , and helium-4 vapor-pressure measurements ( see p. 144 ) .
an acoustical interferometer has been constructed and used , with helium gas as the thermometric fluid , to measure temperatures near 4.2 and 2.1 af .
when values of temperature derived with this instrument were compared with the accepted values associated with liquid helium-4 vapor pressures , differences of about 10 and 7 millidegrees respectively were found .
resistance thermometers .
several germanium resistors have been thermally cycled from 300 to 4.2 af and their resistances have been found to be reproducible within 1/3 millidegree when temperatures were derived from a vapor pressure thermometer whose tubing is jacketed through most of the liquid helium .
the estimated standard deviations of the data for two of the resistors were 1 millidegree ; ;
vapor pressure method .
surface temperature gradients have been found to exist in liquid helium baths contained in 15- and 25-liter metallic storage dewars .
a hydrostatic head correction has been neither necessary nor applicable in the determination of vapor pressures or temperatures for the bulk liquid helium .
it has also been observed , in helium 2 , that large discrepancies can exist between surface vapor pressures and those pressures measured by a vapor pressure thermometer .
in this case also the design of the thermometer can be modified to reduce the helium film flow .
precise pressure-volume-temperature measurements on corrosive gases are dependent on a sensitive yet rugged pressure transducer .
the transducer is a null-type instrument and employs a stretched diaphragm , 0.001 in. thick and 1 in. in diameter .
spherical concave backing surfaces support the diaphragm when excessive pressures are applied and prevent the stresses within the diaphragm from exceeding the elastic limit .
transport properties of air .
this project was carried out under sponsorship of the ballistic missile division of the air research and development command , u.s. air force , and had as its goal the investigation of the transport by diffusion of the heat energy of chemical binding .
another effect discovered is the large coefficient of thermal diffusion tending to separate nitrogen from the oxygen when temperature differences straddling the nitrogen dissociation region are present .
international cooperative activities .
as a first step toward this goal , arrangements were worked out for comparing the scales now in use through circulation of a group of standard platinum resistance thermometers for calibration by each national laboratory .
these thermometers have now been sent to the united kingdom for calibration at the national physical laboratory .
during the last week of march 1961 , columbus , ohio was the site of the fourth symposium on temperature , its measurement and control in science and industry .
the bureau contributed to the planning and success of the symposium through the efforts of mr. w. a. wildhack , general chairman , and dr. c. m. herzfeld , program chairman .
2.1.6 .
in addition to the basic programs in wavelength standards , spectroscopy , solid state physics , interactions of the free electron and atomic constants which are necessary to provide the foundation for technological progress , the bureau has strengthened its activities in laboratory astrophysics .
two data centers have been established for the collection , indexing , critical evaluation , and dissemination of bibliographies and critical values in the fields of transition probabilities and collision cross sections .
transition probabilities .
an exhaustive survey was made of the literature , and a primary reference file of approximately 600 references was catalogued .
a wall-stabilized high-current arc source was constructed and used to study transition probabilities of atomic hydrogen and oxygen .
a study of the hydrogen line profiles indicates that a measurement of these profiles can be used to calculate a temperature for the arc plasma that is reliable to about af percent .
studies of the intensity data indicate that they may be converted to approximate transition probabilities .
atomic energy levels .
new computer and automation techniques were applied to these spectra with considerable success .
in addition to the penalties provided in title 18 , united states code , section 1001 , any person guilty of any act , as provided therein , with respect to any matter under this title , shall forfeit all rights under this title , and , if payment shall have been made or granted , the commission shall take such action as may be necessary to recover the same .
in connection with any claim decided by the commission pursuant to this title in which an award is made , the commission may , upon the written request of the claimant or any attorney heretofore or hereafter employed by such claimant , determine and apportion the just and reasonable attorney's fees for services rendered with respect to such claim , but the total amount of the fees so determined in any case shall not exceed 10 per centum of the total amount paid pursuant to the award .
any fee so determined shall be entered as a part of such award , and payment thereof shall be made by the secretary of the treasury by deducting the amount thereof from the total amount paid pursuant to the award .
the commission is authorized and directed to mail to each claimant in proceedings before the commission notice of the provisions of this subsection .
( g )
any and all payments required to be made by the secretary of the treasury under this title pursuant to any award made by the commission to the government of the united states shall be covered into the treasury to the credit of miscellaneous receipts .
the commission shall notify all claimants of the approval or denial of their claims , stating the reasons and grounds therefor , and if approved , shall notify such claimants of the amount for which such claims are approved .
upon such hearing , the commission may affirm , modify , or revise its former action with respect to such claim , including a denial or reduction in the amount theretofore allowed with respect to such claim .
( i )
( j )
sec. 5 .
the commission shall certify to the secretary of state , upon his request , copies of the formal submissions of claims filed pursuant to subsection ( b ) of section 4 of this act for transmission to the foreign government concerned .
the commission shall complete its affairs in connection with settlement of united states-yugoslav claims arising under the yugoslav claims agreement of 1948 not later than december 31 , 1954 : :
sec. 7 .
subject to the limitations hereinafter provided , the secretary of the treasury is authorized and directed to pay , as prescribed by section 8 of this title , an amount not exceeding the principal of each award , plus accrued interests on such awards as bear interest , certified pursuant to section 5 of this title , in accordance with the award .
( b )
all amounts so deducted shall be covered into the treasury to the credit of miscellaneous receipts .
payments made pursuant to this title shall be made only to the person or persons on behalf of whom the award is made , except that -- ( 1 )
( 2 )
( 3 )
( 4 )
and ( 5 )
( d )
( e )
( f )
sec. 8 .
there are hereby created in the treasury of the united states ( 1 ) a special fund to be known as the yugoslav claims fund ; ;
there shall be covered into the treasury to the credit of the proper special fund all funds hereinafter specified .
( b )
the yugoslav claims fund the sum of $17,000,000 being the amount paid by the government of the federal people's republic of yugoslavia pursuant to the yugoslav claims agreement of 1948 ; ;
a special fund created for that purpose pursuant to subsection ( a ) of this section any amounts hereafter paid , in united states dollars , by a foreign government which has entered into a claims settlement agreement with the government of the united states as described in subsection ( a ) of section 4 of this title .
the secretary of the treasury is authorized and directed out of the sums covered into any of the funds pursuant to subsection ( b ) of this section , and after making the deduction provided for in section 7 ( b ) of this title -- ( 1 )
( 2 )
( 3 )
( 4 )
and ( 5 )
( d )
the secretary of state shall certify to the secretary of the treasury the total cost of adjudication , not borne by the claimants , attributable to the yugoslav claims agreement of 1948 .
sec. 9 .
mr. dooley .
the causes of the decline of the commuter railroads are many and complex -- high taxes , losses of revenue to government subsidized highway and air carriers , to name but two .
there have been a number of sound plans proposed .
instead we have stood idly by , watched our commuter railroad service decline , and have failed to offer a helping hand .
nowhere has this decline been more painfully evident than in the new york city area .
at this time of crisis in our nation's commuter railroads , a new threat to the continued operations of the new york central has appeared in the form of the chesapeake & ohio railroad's proposal for control of the baltimore & ohio railroads .
not only is this kind of duplication wasteful , but it gives the combined system the ability to take freight traffic away from the new york central and other railroads serving the area .
the freight traffic most susceptible to raiding by the c. & o. - b. & o. provides the backbone of central's revenues .
if these services are to be maintained , the new york central must have the revenues to make them possible '' .
this is a $14 million operation involving 3,500 employees who work on commuter traffic exclusively .
``
the central has pointed out .
the logic of creating a strong , balanced , competitive two-system railroad service in the east is so obvious that b. & o. was publicly committed to the approach outlined here .
though far from completion , these studies indicated beyond a doubt that savings would result which would be of unprecedented benefit to the railroads concerned , their investors , their customers , their users , and to the public at large .
in the light of the facts at hand , however , new york central intends to pursue the objective of helping to create a healthy two-system eastern railroad structure in the public interest '' .
obviously , the interstate commerce commission will not force the new york central to further curtail its commuter operations by giving undue competitive advantages to the lines that wish to merge .
that is , will it serve the long-range public interest ? ?
we must ask ourselves which of the two alternatives will help the commuter -- the two-way b. & o. - c. & o. merger , or the three-way new york central - b. & o. - c. & o. merger .
mr. lindsay .
arthur hays sulzberger has been a distinguished publisher of this distinguished newspaper and it is fitting that we take due notice of his major contribution to american journalism on the occasion of his retirement .
mr. sulzberger's successor as publisher is mr. orvil e. dryfoos , who is president of the new york times co. , and who has been with the times since 1942 .
i am also pleased to note that mr. john b. oakes , a member of the times staff since 1946 , has been appointed as editorial page editor .
i should like at this time , mr. speaker , to pay warm tribute to arthur hays sulzberger and charles merz on the occasion of their retirement from distinguished careers in american journalism .
the people of the 17th district of new york , and i as their representative in congress , take great pride in the new york times as one of the great and authoritative newspapers of the world .
mr. speaker , in my latest newsletter to my constituents i urged the imposition of a naval blockade of cuba as the only effective method of preventing continued soviet armaments from coming into the western hemisphere in violation of the monroe doctrine .
under leave to extend my remarks , i include the relevant portion of my newsletter , together with the text of the article from the u.s. news & world report : `` your congressman , samuel s. stratton , reports from washington , may 1 , 1961
cuban s.s.r. : whatever may have been the setbacks resulting from the unsuccessful attempt of the cuban rebels to establish a beachhead on the castro-held mainland last week , there was at least one positive benefit , and that was the clear-cut revelation to the whole world of the complete conversion of cuba into a russian-dominated military base .
somehow , the pictures and stories of soviet t-34 tanks on cuban beaches and russian mig jet fighters strafing rebel troops has brought home to all of us the stark , blunt truth of what it means to have a russian military base 90 miles away from home .
once the full extent of this russian military penetration of cuba was clear , president kennedy announced we would take whatever action was appropriate to prevent this , even if we had to go it alone .
for years the united states had been trying to get these countries to exclude castro's representative from secret military talks .
there is a new atmosphere of urgency in washington this week .
efforts , as i see it , which are being directed , by the way , toward support for future actions , not for those already past .
personally , i think we ought to set up an immediate naval blockade of cuba .
obviously , we can't stop them from coming in , however , just by talk .
``
next for cuba : an arms blockade ? ?
how can the united states act ? ?
in it they see a way to isolate cuba , stop infiltration , maybe finish castro , too .
on april 25 , the white house reported that a total embargo of remaining u.s. trade with cuba was being considered .
weaken castro .
blockade , in the view of military and civilian experts , could restore teeth to the monroe doctrine .
it could stop cuban re-export of guns and propaganda materials to south america .
it is the strategy of blockade , therefore , that is suddenly at the center of attention of administration officials , members of congress , officers in the pentagon .
among these questions : what would a cuba blockade take ? ?
the navy , on april 25 , announced it is bringing back the carrier shangri-la from the mediterranean , increasing to four the number of attack carriers in the vicinity of cuba .
to round out the blockading force , submarines would be needed -- to locate , identify and track approaching vessels .
so would radar picket ships .
three requirements go with a blockade : it must be proclaimed ; ;
and it must be enforced without discrimination .
blockade runners can be stopped -- by gunfire , if necessary -- searched and held , at least temporarily .
what could a blockade accomplish ? ?
in a broad sense , it would reaffirm the monroe doctrine by opposing communist interference in the western hemisphere .
primary target would be shipments of tanks , guns , aviation gasoline and ammunition coming from russia and czechoslovakia .
in a total blockade , action could also be taken against ships bringing in chemicals , oils , textiles , and even foodstuffs .
from its inception in 1920 with the passage of public law 236 , 66th congress , the purpose of the vocational rehabilitation program has been to assist the states , by means of grants-in-aid , to return disabled men and women to productive , gainful employment .
up to this time and for the next eight years , the services provided disabled persons consisted mainly of training , counseling , and placement on a job .
recent changes .
to assist the states , therefore , in rehabilitating handicapped individuals , `` so that they may prepare for and engage in remunerative employment to the extent of their capabilities '' , the 83rd congress enacted the vocational rehabilitation amendments of 1954 ( p. l. 565 ) .
financial aspects .
under p. l. 113 , 78th congress , the federal government assumed responsibility for 100% of necessary state expenditures in connection with administration and the counseling and placement of the disabled , and for 50% of the necessary costs of providing clients with rehabilitation case services .
the 1954 amendments completely changed the financing of the vocational rehabilitation program , providing for a three-part grant structure -- for ( 1 ) basic support ; ;
and ( 3 ) research , demonstrations , training and traineeships for vocational rehabilitation -- and in addition for short-term training and instruction .
subsequent sections on grants describe the other categories of the grant structure .
method of distributing funds
in order to assist the states in maintaining basic vocational rehabilitation services , section 2 of the amended act provides that allotments to states for support of such services be based on ( 1 ) need , as measured by a state's population , and ( 2 ) fiscal capacity , as measured by its per capita income .
it stipulates , in addition , that all amounts remaining as a result of imposing the `` ceiling '' , and not used for insuring the `` floor '' , be redistributed to those states still below their maximums .
the provisions are also designed to avoid disruption in state programs already in operation , which might otherwise result from the allotment of funds on the basis of wealth and population alone .
the method used in computing the allotments is specifically set forth in the act .
the term `` united states '' includes the several states and the district of columbia , and excludes the virgin islands , guam and puerto rico , and , prior to 1962 , alaska and hawaii .
for each state ( except puerto rico , guam , the virgin islands , and , prior to 1962 , alaska and hawaii ) determine average per capita income based on the last three years .
) 2 .
( see source of data , below , for per capita income data to be used in this step .
determine the ratio of 50% to the average per capita income of the u. s. ( divide 50 by the result obtained in item 2 above .
determine for each state ( except the virgin islands , guam and puerto rico , and , prior to 1962 , alaska and hawaii ) that percentage which bears the same ratio to 50% as the particular state's average per capita income bears to the average per capita income of the u. s. .
) 5 .
by law this is 75% for the virgin islands , guam and puerto rico .
)
except that no state shall have an allotment percentage less than 33-1/3% nor more than 75% .
6 .
7 .
( see source of data , below for population data to be used in this step .
multiply the population of each state by the square of its allotment percentage .
) 9 .
( for each state , make all computations set forth in items 1 to 8 above , and then add the results obtained for each state in item 8 .
determine the ratio that the amount being allotted is to the sum of the products for all the states .
) 11 .
( multiply the state product in item 8 above by the result obtained in item 10 above .
determine if the particular state's unadjusted allotment ( result obtained in item 11 above ) is greater than its maximum allotment , and if so lower its unadjusted allotment to its maximum allotment .
) 13 .
regardless of its unadjusted allotment , each state is guaranteed by law a minimum allotment each year equal to the allotment which it received in fiscal year 1954 -- increased by a uniform percentage of 5.4865771 which brings total 1954 allotments to all states up to $23,000,000 .
the funds recouped by reductions in item 12 above are used : first , to increase the unadjusted allotments to the specified minimum in those states where the unadjusted allotment is less than the minimum allotment ( item 13 above ) ; ;
additional note on allotments .
funds allotted in addition to their minimum allotment are apportioned to the two agencies as they may determine .
explanation of matching formula .
prior to 1960 , in order to provide matching for the minimum ( base ) allotment , state funds had to equal 1954 state funds .
the percentage of federal participation in such costs for any state is referred to in the law as that state's `` federal share '' .
beginning in 1960 , the matching requirements for the base allotment are being adjusted ( upward or downward , as required ) 25% a year , so that by 1963 the entire support allotment will be matched on the basis of a 40% pivot state share , with maximum and minimum state shares of 50% and 30% , respectively .
the provisions for determining a state's unadjusted federal share are designed to reflect the varying financial resources among the states .
method of computing federal shares .
the term `` state '' means the several states , the district of columbia , the virgin islands , guam and puerto rico ; ;
the following steps are employed in the calculations : 1 .
( the same amount used in item 1 under method of computing allotments , above .
determine the average per capita income for the united states for the last three years .
) 3 .
( divide 40 by the amount used in item 2 above .
determine for each state ( except the virgin islands , guam , puerto rico , and , prior to 1962 , alaska and hawaii ) , that percentage which bears the same ration to 40% as the particular state's average per capita income bears to the average per capita income of the united states .
) 5 .
by law this is 70% for the virgin islands , guam and puerto rico .
)
except that no state shall have a federal share less than 50% nor more than 70% .
at the entrance side of the shelter , each roof beam is rested on the inside 4 inches of the block wall .
the wooden bracing between the roof beams is placed flush with the inside of the wall .
( for details see inset , fig. 5 .
the first one or two roof boards ( marked `` e '' in fig. 6 ) are slipped into place across the roof beams , from outside the shelter .
concrete blocks are passed between the beams and put on the boards .
work on the roof continues in this way .
when the roof blocks are all in place , the final rows of wall blocks are mortared into position .
( see fig. 7 .
solid concrete blocks , relatively heavy and dense , are used for this shelter .
solid blocks are recommended because hollow blocks would have to be filled with concrete to give effective protection .
if they are used , the walls and roof should be 10 inches thick to give the same protection as the 8-inch solid concrete blocks .
more detailed instructions may be obtained from your local building supply houses and craftsmen .
aboveground double-wall shelter
( see fig. 9 , double-wall shelter .
plans are on pages 22 and 23 .
two walls of concrete blocks are constructed at least 20 inches apart .
the walls are held together with metal ties placed in the wet mortar as the walls are built .
an alternate roof , perhaps more within do-it-yourself reach , could be constructed of heavy wooden roof beams , overlaid with boards and waterproofing .
the materials for a double-wall shelter would cost about $700 .
the shelter would provide almost absolute fallout protection .
pre-shaped corrugated metal sections or pre-cast concrete can be used for shelters either above or below ground .
they form effective fallout shelters when mounded over with earth , as shown in figure 10 .
a contractor probably would be required to help build it .
this shelter , as shown on page 24 , would provide almost absolute protection from fallout radiation .
the national lumber manufacturers association , washington , d. c. , is developing plans to utilize specially treated lumber for underground shelter construction .
underground concrete shelter
the shelter shown would provide almost absolute fallout protection .
the same shelter could be built into an embankment or below ground level .
another type of shelter which gives excellent fallout protection can be built as an added room to the basement of a home under construction .
the shelter illustrated in figure 12 is based on such a room built in a new home in the washington , d.c. area in the spring of 1959 .
arrangement of the entrance .
ventilation .
radio reception .
lighting .
radiation scatters somewhat like light .
the rest continues in a straight line .
ventilation is provided in a concrete block basement shelter by vents in the wall and by the open entrance .
a blower is essential for the double-wall shelter and for the underground shelters .
vent pipes also are necessary ( as shown in figs. 9 , 10 , and 11 ) , but filters are not .
as soon as the shelter is completed a radio reception check must be made .
lighting is an important consideration .
tests have shown that such a device , with a fresh battery , will furnish light continuously for at least 10 days .
a flashlight or electric lantern also should be available for those periods when a brighter light is needed .
other considerations .
other basement windows should be blocked when an emergency threatens .
in these shelters the entrance should be not more than 2 feet wide .
the basement or belowground shelters also will serve for tornado or hurricane protection .
living in a shelter
forty-nine hours after an atomic burst the radiation intensity is only about 1 percent of what it was an hour after the explosion .
therefore , civil defense instructions received over conelrad or by other means should be followed .
radiation instruments suitable for home use are available , and would be of value in locating that portion of the home which offers the best protection against fallout radiation .
one instrument thus would serve both purposes .
it will tell you as soon as possible :
how soon you may go outdoors ; ;
you should be prepared to stay in your shelter full time for at least several days and to make it your home for 14 days or longer .
families with children will have particular problems .
there should be a task for everyone and these tasks should be rotated .
to break the monotony it may be necessary to invent tasks that will keep the family busy .
the survival of the family will depend largely on information received by radio .
family rationing probably will be necessary .
there will come a time in a basement shelter when the radiation has decayed enough to allow use of the whole basement .
the housekeeping problems of living in a shelter will begin as soon as the shelter is occupied .
after the family has settled in the shelter , the housekeeping rules should be spelled out by the adult in charge .
provision for emergency toilet facilities and disposal of human wastes will be an unfamiliar problem .
a 10-gallon garbage can , with a tightly fitting cover , could be used to keep the wastes until it is safe to leave the shelter .
a portable electric heater is advisable for shelters in cold climates .
even if the electric power fails after an attack , any time that the heater has been used will make the shelter that much more comfortable .
warm clothing and bedding , of course , are essential .
a flame would use up air .
4 .
few areas , if any , are as good as prepared shelters but they are worth knowing about .
on the ground floor the radiation would be about half what it is outside .
a belowground basement can cut the fallout radiation to one-tenth of the outside level .
if there is time after the warning , the basement shielding could be improved substantially by blocking windows with bricks , dirt , books , magazines , or other heavy material .
shelter in apartment buildings
in general , such apartments afford more protection than smaller buildings because their walls are thick and there is more space .
the basement of such an apartment building may provide as much natural protection as the specially constructed concrete block shelter recommended for the basement of a family dwelling .
the problem for the city apartment dweller is primarily to plan the use of existing space .
a former du pont official became a general motors vice president and set about maximizing du pont's share of the general motors market .
within a few years various du pont manufactured items were filling the entire requirements of from four to seven of general motors' eight operating divisions .
competitors came to receive higher percentage of general motors business in later years , but it is `` likely '' that this trend stemmed `` at least in part '' from the needs of general motors outstripping du pont's capacity .
the fact that sticks out in this voluminous record is that the bulk of du pont's production has always supplied the largest part of the requirements of the one customer in the automobile industry connected to du pont by a stock interest .
353 u. s. , at 605 .
353 u. s. , at 606 .
this claim , as submitted to the district court and dismissed by it , 126 f.supp.235 , alleged violation not only of 7 of the clayton act , but also of 1 and 2 of the sherman act .
however , this court put to one side without consideration the government's appeal from the dismissal of its sherman act allegations .
no corporation engaged in commerce shall acquire , directly or indirectly , the whole or any part of the stock or other share capital of another corporation engaged also in commerce , where the effect of such acquisition may be to substantially lessen competition between the corporation whose stock is so acquired and the corporation making the acquisition , or to restrain such commerce in any section or community , or tend to create a monopoly of any line of commerce .
''
section 7 is designed to arrest in its incipiency not only the substantial lessening of competition from the acquisition by one corporation of the whole or any part of the stock of a competing corporation , but also to arrest in their incipiency restraints or monopolies in a relevant market which , as a reasonable probability , appear at the time of suit likely to result from the acquisition by one corporation of all or any part of the stock of any other corporation .
'' 353 u. s. , at 589 .
indeed , as already noted , the court proceeded on the assumption that the executives involved in the dealings between du pont and general motors acted `` honorably and fairly '' and exercised their business judgment only to serve what they deemed the best interests of their own companies .
that these products constituted a `` line of commerce '' within the meaning of the clayton act ; ;
and that competition for this share of the market was endangered by the financial relationship between the two concerns : ``
we repeat , that the test of a violation of 7 is whether , at the time of suit , there is a reasonable probability that the acquisition is likely to result in the condemned restraints .
'' 353 u. s. , at 607 .
the sole guidance given the court for discharging the task committed to it was this : ``
the district courts , in the framing of equitable decrees , are clothed ' with large discretion to model their judgements to fit the exigencies of the particular case .
353 u. s. , at 607-608 .
2 .
the first pretrial conference -- held to appoint amici curiae to represent the interest of the stockholders of du pont and general motors and to consider the procedure to be followed in the subsequent hearings -- took place on september 25 , 1957 .
du pont , he said , had proposed disenfranchisement of its general motors stock along with other restrictions on the du pont - general motors relationship .
counsel for the government invited du pont's views on this proposal before recommending a specific program , but stated that if the court desired , or if counsel for du pont thought further discussion would not be profitable , the government was prepared to submit a plan within thirty days .
no previous antitrust case , he said , had involved interests of such magnitude or presented such complex problems of relief .
the court adopted this procedure with an appropriate time schedule for carrying it out .
the plan called for divestiture by du pont of its 63,000,000 shares of general motors stock by equal annual distributions to its stockholders , as a dividend , over a period of ten years .
if , in the trustee's judgment , `` reasonable market conditions '' did not prevail during any given year , he was to be allowed to petition the court for an extension of time within the ten-year period .
du pont , christiana , and delaware were to be enjoined from acquiring stock in or exercising control over general motors ; ;
and general motors and du pont were to be ordered to terminate any agreement that provided for the purchase by general motors of any specified percentage of its requirements of any du pont manufactured product , or for the grant of exclusive patent rights , or for a grant by general motors to du pont of a preferential right to make or sell any chemical discovery of general motors , or for the maintenance of any joint commercial enterprise by the two companies .
on may 9 , 1958 , the commissioner announced his rulings .
the measure , for federal income tax purposes , of the dividend to individual stockholders would be the fair market value of the shares at the time of each annual distribution .
the forced sale of the general motors stock owned by or allocable to christiana , delaware , and the stockholders of delaware , and deposited with the trustee , would result in a tax to those parties at the capital gains rate .
under its plan du pont would retain its general motors shares but be required to pass on to its stockholders the right to vote those shares .
du pont would be enjoined from having as a director , officer , or employee anyone who was simultaneously an officer or employee of general motors , and no director , officer , or employee of du pont could serve as a director of general motors without court approval .
on june 6 , 1958 , general motors submitted its objections to the government's proposal .
that there would be a similar decline in the market values of other automotive and chemical stocks , with similar losses to the stockholders of those companies ; ;
and that all this would have a serious adverse effect on the entire stock market and on general business activity .
the decrees proposed by the amici curiae were filed in august of 1958 .
both plans also prohibited common directors , officers , or employees between du pont , christiana , and delaware , on the one hand , and general motors on the other .
while it is easy enough to ridicule hawkins' pronouncement in pleas of the crown from a metaphysical point of view , the concept of the `` oneness '' of a married couple may reflect an abiding belief that the communion between husband and wife is such that their actions are not always to be regarded by the criminal law as if there were no marriage .
one need not waver in his belief in virile law enforcement to insist that there are other things in american life which are also of great importance , and to which even law enforcement must accommodate itself .
the court's opinion dogmatically asserts that the husband-wife conspiracy doctrine does not in fact protect this relationship , and that hence the doctrine `` enthrones an unreality into a rule of law '' .
but in any event , i submit that the power to depose belongs to congress , not to this court .
petitioner , who claims to be a conscientious objector , was convicted of violating 12a of the universal military training and service act by refusing to be inducted into the armed forces .
held : on the record in this case , the administrative procedures prescribed by the act were fully complied with ; ;
and his conviction is sustained .
( a )
pp. 62-63 .
petitioner was not entitled to have the hearing officer's notes and report , especially since he failed to show any particular need for them and he did have a copy of the department of justice's recommendation to the appeal board .
( c )
pp. 64-66 .
daniel m. friedman argued the cause for the united states .
mr. justice clark delivered the opinion of the court .
petitioner , who claims to be a conscientious objector , contends that he was denied due process , both in the proceedings before a hearing officer of the department of justice and at trial .
the trial judge decided that the administrative procedures of the act were fully complied with and refused to require the production of such documents .
the court of appeals affirmed .
we granted certiorari in view of the importance of the questions in the administration of the act .
we have concluded that petitioner's claims are controlled by the rationale of gonzales v. united states , 348 u.s. 407 ( 1955 ) , and united states v. nugent , 346 u.s. 1 ( 1953 ) , and therefore affirm the judgment .
his answers to the classification questionnaire reflected that he was a minister of jehovah's witnesses , employed at night by a sugar producer .
on november 13 , 1952 , he was classified in class 1-a .
he again stated that he was `` a regular minister '' ; ;
thereafter he was classified 1-o .
in a periodic review , the local board on july 30 , 1953 , reclassified him 1-a and upheld this classification after a personal appearance by petitioner , because of his willingness to kill in defense of his church and home .
he was not prosecuted , however , and his case was subsequently reopened , in the light of sicurella v. united states , 348 u.s. 385 ( 1955 ) .
there followed a customary department of justice hearing , at which petitioner appeared .
on march 21 , 1957 , however , the department recommended approval of the 1-a classification .
it reported that he now devoted only some 6-1/2 hours per month to public preaching and from 20 to 25 hours per month to church activities .
the appeal board furnished petitioner a copy of the recommendation .
the appeal board , however , unanimously concurred in the department's recommendation .
petitioner first contends that the department denied him procedural due process by not giving him timely opportunity , before its final recommendation to the appeal board , to answer the statement of the local board as to his claim of devoting 100 hours to actual preaching .
he admitted that he knew it was open to him at all times , and he could have rebutted it before the hearing officer .
apparently he never took the trouble to find out .
after the recommendation of the department is forwarded to the appeal board , that is the appropriate place for a registrant to lodge his denial .
we found in gonzales v. united states , supra , that this was the controlling reason why copies of the recommendation should be furnished a registrant .
348 u.s. , at 412 .
as was said in gonzales , `` it is the appeal board which renders the selective service determination considered ' final ' in the courts , not to be overturned unless there is no basis in fact .
348 u. s. , at 412-413 .
at his trial , petitioner sought to secure through subpoena duces tecum the longhand notes of the department's hearing officer , evensen , as well as his report thereon .
he alleged no specific procedural errors or evidence withheld ; ;
section 6(j) of the act , as we have held , does require the department's recommendation to be placed in a registrant's file .
but there is nothing in the act requiring the hearing officer's report to be likewise turned over to the registrant .
moreover , the hearing officer's report is but intradepartmental , is directed to the attorney general and , of course , is not the recommendation of the department .
it is but part of the whole process within the department that goes into the making of the final recommendation to the appeal board .
hence the petitioner had full opportunity to traverse the only conclusions of the department on file with the board .
having had every opportunity to rebut the finding of the local board before both the hearing officer and the appeal board , petitioner cannot now claim that he was denied due process because he did not succeed .
in addition , petitioner has failed to show any particular need for the report and notes .
moreover , his testimony at trial never developed any such facts .
finally petitioner says that he was entitled to inspect the fbi report during the proceedings before the hearing officer as well as at the trial .
even now no such claim is asserted .
but this is fully answered by united states v. nugent , supra .
346 u.s. , at 5-6 .
the recommendation of the department -- as well as the decision of the appeal board -- was based entirely on the local board file , not on an fbi report .
with this enlarged role in mind , i should like to make a few suggestions : what we in the united states do or do not do will make a very large difference in what happens in the rest of the world .
we cannot regard foreign policy as something left over after defense policy or trade policy or fiscal policy has been extracted .
that means that , if we are to achieve a new standard of leadership , we must think in terms of the total context of our situation .
it is also the concern of the department of state that our trading relationships with the rest of the world are vigorous , profitable , and active -- this is not just a passing interest or a matter of concern only to the department of commerce .
assistant secretaries of state will now carry an increased burden of active formulation and coordination of policies .
i think we need to concern ourselves also with the timeliness of action .
unless we keep our eyes on the horizon ahead , we shall fail to bring ourselves on target with the present .
if there is anything which we can do in the executive branch of the government to speed up the processes by which we come to decisions on matters on which we must act promptly , that in itself would be a major contribution to the conduct of our affairs .
there will of course be times for delay and inaction .
i also hope that we can do something about reducing the infant mortality rate of ideas -- an affliction of all bureaucracies .
we want to make sure that our junior colleagues realize that ideas are welcome , that initiative goes right down to the bottom and goes all the way to the top .
the responsibility for taking the initiative in generating ideas is that of every officer in the department who has a policy function , regardless of rank .
while observing the operations of our government in various parts of the world , i have felt that in many situations where our policies were good we have tended to ignore minor problems which spoiled our main effort .
the attitudes of a u.n. delegate who experiences difficulty in finding adequate housing in new york city , or of a foreign diplomat in similar circumstances in our capital , can easily be directed against the united states and all that it stands for .
sometimes those who know about them are too far down the line to be able to do anything about them .
if the department of state is to take primary responsibility for foreign policy in washington , it follows that the ambassador is expected to take charge overseas .
he is expected to know about what is going on among the representatives of other agencies who are stationed in his country .
if any official operation abroad begins to go wrong , we shall look to the ambassador to find out why and to get suggestions for remedial action .
it occurred to me that you might be interested in some thoughts which i expressed privately in recent years , in the hope of clearing up a certain confusion in the public mind about what foreign policy is all about and what it means , and of developing a certain compassion for those who are carrying such responsibilities inside government .
this means practically everybody in this room .
the senior policy officer may be moved to think hard about a problem by any of an infinite variety of stimuli : an idea in his own head , the suggestions of a colleague , a question from the secretary or the president , a proposal by another department , a communication from a foreign government or an american ambassador abroad , the filing of an item for the agenda of the united nations or of any other of dozens of international bodies , a news item read at the breakfast table , a question to the president or the secretary at a news conference , a speech by a senator or congressman , an article in a periodical , a resolution from a national organization , a request for assistance from some private american interests abroad , et cetera , ad infinitum .
his first thought is about the question itself : is there a question here for american foreign policy , and , if so , what is it ? ?
chewing it over with his colleagues and in his own mind , he reaches a tentative identification of the question -- tentative because it may change as he explores it further and because , if no tolerable answer can be found , it may have to be changed into one which can be answered .
he is appreciative of the expert help available to him and draws these resources into play , taking care to examine at least some of the raw material which underlies their frequently policy-oriented conclusions .
he is already beginning to box the compass of alternative lines of action , including doing nothing .
but he takes his bearings from the great guidelines of policy , well-established precedents , the commitments of the united states under international charters and treaties , basic statutes , and well-understood notions of the american people about how we are to conduct ourselves , in policy literature such as country papers and national security council papers accumulated in the department .
he must think about which of these principles must take precedence .
he is aware that every moderately important problem merges imperceptibly into every other problem .
he must think of others who have a stake in the question and in its answer .
which american ambassadors could provide helpful advice ? ?
what is the probable attitude of other governments , including those less directly involved ? ?
if action is indicated , what kind of action is relevant to the problem ? ?
can the president or the secretary act under existing authority , or will new legislation and new money be required ? ?
is the matter one for the united nations or some other international body ? ?
respect for the opinions of mankind
for the policy officer will know that action can almost never be secret and that in general the effectiveness of policy will be conditioned by the readiness of the country to sustain it .
and , given probable public attitudes -- about which reasonably good estimates can be made -- what action is called for to insure necessary support ? ?
we do not want policy officers below the level of presidential appointees to concern themselves too much with problems of domestic politics in recommending foreign policy action .
mr. truman emphasized this point by saying , `` you fellows in the department of state don't know much about domestic politics '' .
if we sit here reading editorials and looking at public-opinion polls and other reports that cross our desks , we should realize that this is raw , undigested opinion expressed in the absence of leadership .
we cannot test public opinion until the president and the leaders of the country have gone to the public to explain what is required and have asked them for support for the necessary action .
the problem in the policy officer's mind thus begins to take shape as a galaxy of utterly complicated factors -- political , military , economic , financial , legal , legislative , procedural , administrative -- to be sorted out and handled within a political system which moves by consent in relation to an external environment which cannot be under control .
while there should be no general age limit or restriction to one sex , there will be particular projects requiring special maturity and some open only to men or to women .
there should be no draft exemption because of peace corps service .
peace corps volunteers obviously should not be paid what they might earn in comparable activities in the united states .
the guiding principle indeed should not be anything like compensation for individual services .
peace corps volunteers should be given just enough to provide a minimum decent standard of living .
wherever possible they should live with their host country counterparts .
for example , it probably will be necessary for the corps to have authority to pay medical expenses of volunteers .
for readjustment to the u.s. , volunteers should be given some separation allowance at the end of their overseas service , based on the length of time served .
in what part of the government should the peace corps be established ? ?
support for it cuts across party , regional , ethnic and other lines .
for this , the peace corps should be administered by a small , new , alive agency operating as one component in our whole overseas operation .
when the aid operations are reorganized the peace corps should remain a semi-autonomous , functional unit .
in this way the peace corps can be launched with its own identity and spirit and yet receive the necessary assistance from those now responsible for united states foreign policy and our overseas operations .
how and when should the peace corps be launched ? ?
the peace corps should be launched soon so that the opportunity to recruit the most qualified people from this year's graduating classes will not be lost .
if launched in a careful but determined way within the next few weeks , the peace corps could have several hundred persons in training this summer for placement next fall .
it can then grow steadily as it proves itself and as the need for it is demonstrated .
what would the first projects be ? ?
the need here is most clearly felt and our capacity to recruit and train qualified volunteers in a short period of time is greatest .
the first year's projects should also be spread through several countries in latin america , africa and asia .
how will the peace corps be received abroad ? ?
a certain skepticism about the coming of americans is to be expected in many quarters .
but there are indications that many developing nations will welcome peace corps volunteers , and that if the volunteers are well chosen , they will soon demonstrate their value and make many friends .
in presenting it to other governments and to the united nations , we could propose that every nation consider the formation of its own peace corps and that the united nations sponsor the idea and form an international coordinating committee .
in any case , our peace corps personnel should be offered as technician helpers in development projects of the u.n. and other international agencies .
our aim must be to learn as much as we teach .
if presented in this spirit , the response and the results will be immeasurably better .
how will it be financed ? ?
if it is decided to make a small shift which may be required from military aid or special assistance funds , in order to carry out the purposes of the mutual security act through this new peaceful program , this will be a hopeful sign to the world .
specifically , congress should consider authorizing the peace corps to receive contributions from american businesses , unions , civic organizations and the public at large .
an advisory council of outstanding public figures with experience in world affairs should be formed to give the program continuing guidance and to afford a focal point for public understanding .
the extent to which participating bodies such as u. s. voluntary agencies , universities , international organizations , and the host country or institutions in the host country can and should share the cost of the peace corps programs must be fully explored .
is it worth the cost and the risks ? ?
these could be costly and have a serious effect both at home and abroad .
it can contribute to the development of critical countries and regions .
it can also contribute to the education of america and to more intelligent american participation in the world .
with colleges and universities carrying a large part of the program , and with students looking toward peace corps service , there will be an impact on educational curriculum and student seriousness .
and this is meeting the world's need , too , since what the world most needs from this country is better understanding of the world .
as you said in your state of the union message , `` the problems are towering and unprecedented -- and the response must be towering and unprecedented as well '' .
i recommend to the congress the establishment of a permanent peace corps -- a pool of trained american men and women sent overseas by the u.s. government or through private organizations and institutions to help foreign countries meet their urgent needs for skilled manpower .
the temporary peace corps will be a source of information and experience to aid us in formulating more effective plans for a permanent organization .
this temporary peace corps is being established under existing authority in the mutual security act and will be located in the department of state .
throughout the world the people of the newly developing nations are struggling for economic and social progress which reflects their deepest desires .
one of the greatest obstacles to the achievement of this goal is the lack of trained men and women with the skill to teach the young and assist in the operation of development projects -- men and women with the capacity to cope with the demands of swiftly evolving economics , and with the dedication to put that capacity to work in the villages , the mountains , the towns and the factories of dozens of struggling nations .
to meet this urgent need for skilled manpower we are proposing the establishment of a peace corps -- an organization which will recruit and train american volunteers , sending them abroad to work with the people of other nations .
they will help provide the skilled manpower necessary to carry out the development projects planned by the host governments , acting at a working level and serving at great personal sacrifice .
wildlife habitat resources
hunter and fisherman visits since 1949 have increased 8 times faster than the nationwide sale of hunting and fishing licenses .
the long-range objective of habitat management is to make it fully productive so as to support fish and game populations to contribute to the need for public use and enjoyment .
revise and complete wildlife habitat management and improvement plans for all administrative units , assuring proper coordination between wildlife habitat management and other resources .
inventory and evaluate wildlife habitat resources in cooperation with other federal agencies and with the states in which national forests and grasslands are located , as a basis for orderly development of wildlife habitat improvement and coordination programs , including ( a ) big-game , gamebird , and small-game habitat surveys and investigations on the 186 million acres of national forests and grasslands , ( b ) fishery habitat surveys and investigations on the 81,000 miles of national forest fishing streams and nearly 3 million acres of lakes and impoundments , and ( c ) participation in planning , inspection , and control phases of all habitat improvement , land and water use projects conducted on national forest lands by states , other federal agencies , and private groups to assure that projects will benefit wildlife and be in harmony with other resource values .
improve food and cover on 1.5 million acres of key wildlife areas .
develop wildlife openings , food patches , and game ways in dense vegetation by clearing or controlled burning on 400,000 acres .
improve 7,000 miles of fishing streams and 56,000 acres of lakes by stabilizing banks , planting streamside cover , and constructing channel improvements .
the total adverse impact of disease , insects , fire , weather , destructive animals , and other forces on the uses and values of forest resources is not generally recognized .
the loss in growth of sawtimber because of damage by destructive agencies in the united states in 1952 was estimated to be about 44 billion board feet .
about 45 percent of the loss in growth was attributable to disease , 20 percent to insects , 17 percent to fire , and 18 percent to weather , animals , and various other causes .
the long-range objective is to hold the damage from destructive agencies below the level which would seriously interfere with intensive management of the national forest system under principles of multiple use and high-level sustained yield of products and services .
in addition to direct protection measures , more intensive management of timber resources will assist in reduction of losses from insects and disease .
in the 10-year period , it is proposed that insect and disease control on the national forest system be stepped up to a level of prevention , detection , and control of insect and disease infestations that will substantially reduce the occurrence of large infestations toward the end of the initial period .
the work will consist of : 1 .
( b ) more reliable evaluation of the potential of initial outbreaks to cause widespread damage ; ;
the initial suppression activities would cover about twice the acreage currently being treated .
continuation of present blister rust control work plus extension of control to 250,000 acres not now protected but which should be managed for white pine production .
3 .
4 .
protection from fire
this will include 125 million acres compared with 23 million acres now receiving such protection .
meeting these levels of protection from fire calls for : 1 .
this is to be accomplished by nearly doubling the present level of preventive effort , detection , skilled fire-fighting crews , and equipment use .
2 .
3 .
this work will cover the most serious one-fourth of all land needing such treatment , and will consist of burning 250,000 acres of highly hazardous debris concentration , felling snags on 350,000 acres of high lightning-occurrence areas , prescribed burning on 3.5 million acres , removing roadside fuel on 39,000 acres , and clearing and maintaining 11,000 miles of firebreaks .
rodent control work for the 10-year period will be aimed at control of the most serious infestations of harmful rodents , such as porcupines and mice , on high-value areas of forage and commercial timberlands .
approximately 1.8 million acres of rangelands and 9.4 million acres of timberlands would be treated in this period .
roads and trails
this system is divided into a forest highway system , administered by the secretary of commerce , and a forest development road and trail system , administered by the secretary of agriculture .
in the forest highway system , there are now 24,400 miles of public roads .
because administration of the forest highway system is a responsibility of the secretary of commerce with maintenance provided by the states and counties , this development program for the national forests does not include estimates of the funds needed to maintain the forest highway system nor to construct the additions to it that are needed .
in the forest development road and trail system , there are now 162,400 miles of roads and 106,500 miles of supplemental foot and horse trails .
construction and maintenance of this system is a responsibility of the secretary of agriculture .
the ultimate trail system will be of value primarily for recreation and wildlife utilization and fire protection .
the presence or lack of access by road or trail has a direct and controlling influence on all phases of forest management and utilization such as : ( a )
( b )
( c )
( d )
( e )
the existence of road systems permits an intensity of management and use for all national forest purposes that is not otherwise possible .
use of these roads by the public results in substantial benefits to the localities the roads serve .
for the year 2000 this means servicing ( a ) the protection requirements of a watershed producing at least 200 million acre-feet of water each year , ( b ) recreation and wildlife resources used each year by 635 million visitors , ( c ) a timber resource supporting an annual cut of 21 billion board feet , and ( d ) 60 million acres of rangelands .
about 26,500 miles of existing trails will be replaced in service by the construction of new roads .
program proposals for forest development roads and trails for the 10-year period 1963-1972 are as follows : 1 .
this constitutes about 17 percent of the long-range requirements for these facilities .
2 .
land adjustment , land purchase , land use
in some units , national forest ownership is well blocked together .
within exterior boundaries of national forests and national grasslands , there are about 40,000,000 acres in non-federal ownership .
some privately held inholdings are a source of direct damage to these federal lands .
there are no reasonable prospects that these conditions will be corrected or changed .
the long-range objective is to bring about consolidation of ownership through use of land exchange authority and through purchase on a moderate scale of inholdings which comprise key tracts for recognized national forest programs such as recreation development , or which are a source of damage to lands in national forests and national grasslands .
the change of emphasis from conventional-type to missile-type warfare must be made with care , mindful that the one type of warfare cannot be safely neglected in favor of the other .
forces and military personnel strength .
the forces to be supported include an army of 14 divisions and 870,000 men ; ;
a marine corps of 3 divisions and 3 air wings with 175,000 men ; ;
if the reserve components are to serve effectively in time of war , their basic organization and objectives must conform to the changing character and missions of the active forces .
under modern conditions , this is especially true of the ready reserve .
last year the congress discontinued its previously imposed minimum personnel strength limitations on the army reserve .
i strongly recommend to the congress the avoidance of mandatory floors on the size of the reserve components so that we may have the flexibility to make adjustments in keeping with military necessity .
these strengths are considered adequate to meet the essential roles and missions of the reserves in support of our national security objectives .
-- about 30% of the expenditures for the department of defense in 1961 are for military personnel costs , including pay for active , reserve , and retired military personnel .
retired pay costs are increased by $94 million in 1961 over 1960 , partly because of a substantial increase in the number of retired personnel .
traditionally , rates of pay for retired military personnel have been proportionate to current rates of pay for active personnel .
i endorse pending legislation that will restore the traditional relationship between retired and active duty pay rates .
-- expenditures for operating and maintaining the stations and equipment of the armed forces are estimated to be $10.3 billion in 1961 , which is $184 million more than in 1960 .
a substantial increase is estimated in the cost of operating additional communications systems in the air defense program , as well as in all programs where speed and security of communications are essential .
further increases arise from the civilian employee health program enacted by the congress last year .
in total , these increases in operating costs outweigh the savings that result from declining programs and from economy measures , such as reduced numbers of units and installations , smaller inventories of major equipment , and improvements in the supply and distribution systems of the armed forces .
this section prevents the military departments and the office of civil and defense mobilization from carrying out certain transactions involving real property unless they come into agreement with the committees on armed services of the senate and the house of representatives .
accordingly , if it is not repealed by the congress at its present session , i shall have no alternative thereafter but to direct the secretary of defense to disregard the section unless a court of competent jurisdiction determines otherwise .
the growing communications needs of this new state can best be met , as they have in other states , through the operation and development of such facilities by private enterprise .
procurement , research , and construction .
in 1961 , these expenditures are estimated at $18.9 billion , compared to $19.3 billion in 1960 .
expenditures for shipbuilding are estimated at about the same level as in 1960 .
on the other hand , the new authority of $3,825 million proposed for missile procurement ( excluding research and construction ) in 1961 is $581 million higher than for 1960 .
the department of defense appropriation acts for the past several years have contained a rider which limits competitive bidding by firms in other countries on certain military supply items .
i urge once again that the congress not reenact this rider .
the last few years have witnessed what have been perhaps the most rapid advances in military technology in history .
furthermore , unexpectedly rapid progress or a technological break-through on any one weapon system , in itself , often diminishes the relative importance of other competitive systems .
thus , in the last few years , a number of programs which looked very promising at the time their development was commenced have since been completely eliminated .
another example is the recent cancellation of the f-108 , a long-range interceptor with a speed three times as great as the speed of sound , which was designed for use against manned bombers in the period of the mid-1960's .
considering the high cost of the f-108 system -- over $4 billion for the force that had been planned -- and the time period in which it would become operational , it was decided to stop further work on the project .
the size and scope of other important programs have been reduced from earlier plans .
the impact of technological factors is also illustrated by the history of the high-energy fuel program .
continuing technical problems involved in the use of this fuel , coupled with significant improvements in aircraft range through other means , have now raised serious questions about the value of the high-energy fuel program .
these examples underscore the importance of even more searching evaluations of new major development programs and even more penetrating and far-ranging analyses of the potentialities of future technology .
strategic forces .
the first capability is represented by a combination of manned bombers , carrier-based aircraft , and intercontinental and intermediate range missiles .
the strategic air command is the principal element of our long-range nuclear capability .
this aircraft , which was planned for initial operational use about 1965 , would be complementary to but likewise competitive with the four strategic ballistic missile systems , all of which are scheduled to become available earlier .
the minuteman solid-fueled icbm is planned to be operational about mid-1963 .
thus , the need for the b-70 as a strategic weapon system is doubtful .
it is expected that in 1963 two prototype aircraft will be available for flight testing .
i am recommending additional acquisitions of the improved version of the b-52 ( the b-52h with the new turbofan engine ) and procurement of the b-58 supersonic medium bomber , together with the supporting refueling tankers in each case .
one b-52 can do the work of several b-47's which it will replace .
in the coming fiscal year additional quantities of atlas , titan , and polaris missiles also will be procured .
3 .
under this agreement the first annual review of rice availabilities will be made in august 1960 .
4 .
the united states government shall have the right to terminate the financing of further sales under this agreement of any commodity if it determines at any time after june 30 , 1961 , that such action is necessitated by the existence of an international emergency .
1 .
for united states expenditures under subsections ( a ) , ( b ) , ( d ) , ( e ) , ( f ) , ( h ) through ( r ) of section 104 of the act or under any of such subsections , the rupee equivalent of $200 million .
for grant to the government of india under subsection ( e ) of section 104 of the act , the rupee equivalent of not more than $538 million for financing such projects to promote balanced economic development as may from time to time be mutually agreed .
for loan to the government of india under subsection ( g ) of section 104 of the act , the rupee equivalent of not more than $538 million for financing such projects to promote balanced economic development as may be mutually agreed .
in the event that agreement is not reached on the use of the rupees for grant or loan purposes within six years from the date of this agreement , the government of the united states of america may use the local currency for any purposes authorized by section 104 of the act .
in the event the total of rupees accruing to the government of the united states of america as a consequence of sales made pursuant to this agreement is different from the rupee equivalent of $1,276 million , the amounts available for the purposes specified in paragraph 1 , article 2 , will be adjusted proportionately .
the deposit of rupees to the account of the government of the united states of america in payment for the commodities and for ocean transportation costs financed by the government of the united states of america ( except excess costs resulting from the requirement that united states flag vessels be used ) shall be made at the rate of exchange for united states dollars generally applicable to import transactions ( excluding imports granted a preferential rate ) in effect on the dates of dollar disbursement by united states banks , or by the government of the united states of america , as provided in the purchase authorizations .
1 .
2 .
3 .
4 .
article 5 , consultation
article 6 , entry into force
in witness whereof , the respective representatives , duly authorized for the purpose , have signed the present agreement .
for the government of the united states of america :
for the government of india :
i have the honor to refer to the agricultural commodities agreement signed today between the government of the united states of america and the government of india ( hereinafter referred to as the agreement ) and , with regard to the rupees accruing to uses indicated under article 2 , of the agreement , to state that the understanding of the government of the united states of america is as follows : 1 .
the government of india will provide facilities for the conversions of the rupee equivalent of $4 million ( up to a maximum of $1 million per year ) accruing under the subject agreement for agricultural market development purposes into currencies other than united states dollars on request of the government of the united states of america .
the government of the united states of america may utilize rupees in india to pay for goods and services , including international transportation needed in connection with market development and other agricultural projects and activities in india and other countries .
the rupee equivalent of $63.8 million , but not more than 5 percent of the currencies received under the agreement will be used for loans to be made by the export-import bank of washington under section 104 ( e ) of the agricultural trade development and assistance act , as amended ( hereinafter referred to as the act ) , and for administrative expenses of the export-import bank of washington in india incident thereto .
such loans under section 104 ( e ) of the act will be made to united states business firms and branches , subsidiaries , or affiliates of such firms in india for business development and trade expansion in india and to united states firms and to indian firms for the establishment of facilities for aiding in the utilization , distribution , or otherwise increasing the consumption of and markets for united states agricultural products .
( b )
the secretary , department of economic affairs , or his designate , will act for the government of india , and the president of the export-import bank of washington , or his designate , will act for the export-import bank of washington .
upon receipt of an application which the export-import bank is prepared to consider , the export-import bank will inform the department of economic affairs of the identity of the applicant , the nature of the proposed business , the amount of the proposed loan , and the general purposes for which the loan proceeds would be expended .
when the export-import bank is prepared to act favorably upon an application , it will so notify the department of economic affairs and will indicate the interest rate and the repayment period which would be used under the proposed loan .
( e )
unless within the sixty-day period the export-import bank has received such a communication from the department of economic affairs it shall be understood that the department of economic affairs has no objection to the proposed loan .
2 .
agriculture ; ;
industry , including the production of fertilizer , irrigation and power , transport and communications , and credit institutions ; ;
public health , education , and rehabilitation ; ;
other economic development projects consistent with the purposes of sections 104 ( e ) and 104 ( g ) of the act .
3 .
4 .
local currency will be advanced or reimbursed to the government of india for financing agreed projects under paragraphs 1 ( b ) and 1 ( c ) of article 2 , of the agreement upon the presentation of such documentation as the united states may specify .
the government of india shall maintain or cause to be maintained books and records adequate to identify the goods and services financed for agreed projects pursuant to paragraphs 1 ( b ) and 1 ( c ) of article 2 , of the agreement , to disclose the use thereof in the projects and to record the progress of the projects ( including the cost thereof ) .
the two governments shall have the right at all reasonable times to examine such books and records and all other documents , correspondence , memoranda and other records involving transactions relating to agreed projects .
this broad delegation leaves within our discretion ( subject to the always-present criterion of the public interest ) both the determination of what degree of interference shall be considered excessive , and the methods by which such excessive interference shall be avoided .
the present proceeding is concerned with the standard broadcast ( am ) band , from 540 kc. to 1600 kc. .
the extent of such interference -- which may be so slight as to be undetectable at any point where either of the stations renders a usable signal , or may be so great as to virtually destroy the service areas of both stations -- depends on many factors , among the principal ones being the distance between the stations , their respective radiated power , and , of particular significance here , the time of day .
with the existence of these many factors , some of them variable , it obviously has never been and is not now possible for the commission to make assignments of am stations on a case-to-case basis which will insure against any interference in any circumstances .
an example of the overall standards applied is the 20-to-1 ratio established for the determination of that degree of cochannel interference which is regarded as objectionable .
4 .
a second fundamental principle is that involved particularly in the present proceeding -- the difference between nighttime and daytime propagation conditions with respect to the standard broadcast frequencies .
all am stations radiate both skywave and groundwave signals , at all hours ; ;
but during nighttime hours the skywave radiations are reflected from the ionosphere , thereby creating the possibility of one station's rendering service , via skywave , at a much greater distance than it can through its groundwave signal , and at the same time vastly complicating the interference problem because of the still greater distance over which these skywave signals may cause interference to the signals of stations on the same and closely adjacent frequencies .
5 .
during the period of about 4 hours around sunset , skywave transmission conditions are building up until full nighttime conditions prevail ; ;
however , in this case as elsewhere it was necessary to arrive at a single standard to be applied to all situations , representing an averaging of conditions , and thus to fix particular points in time which would be considered the dividing points between daytime and nighttime conditions .
accordingly , the 1938-39 rules adopted these hours as limitations upon the operation of daytime stations .
the same restrictions apply after local sunset in the case of class 3 , stations operating on regional channels , which after that time are required to operate under nighttime restrictions in order to protect each other .
these curves were derived by an analysis of extensive skywave measurement data .
for this reason , the more uncertain skywave service was denominated `` secondary '' in our rules , as compared to the steadier , more reliable groundwave `` primary service '' , and , for both skywave service and skywave interference , signal strength is expressed in terms of percentage of time a particular signal-intensity level is exceeded -- 50 percent of the time for skywave service , 10 percent of the time for skywave interference .
6 .
the rules and policies to be applied in this process of course must be based on objectives which represent what is to be desired if radio service is to be of maximum use to the nation .
to provide some service to all listeners ; ;
to provide as many choices of service to as many listeners as possible ; ;
to provide service of local origin to as many listeners as possible .
accordingly , the commission has recognized that an optimum allocation pattern for one frequency does not necessarily represent the best pattern for other frequencies , and has assigned different frequencies for use by different classes of stations .
in dealing with these frequencies , the objective listed first above -- provision of service to all listeners -- was predominant ; ;
the class 1 , stations on these clear channels are protected to their 0.1-mv./m. groundwave contours against daytime cochannel interference .
class 1 , -- b stations are protected at night to their 0.5-mv./m. 50-percent time skywave contours against cochannel interference .
but nighttime operation by stations of other classes of course entails skywave interference to groundwave service , interference which is substantial unless steps are taken to minimize it .
with respect to other frequencies , these are designated as regional or local , and assigned for use by class 3 , and class 4 , stations , respectively , stations operating generally with lower power .
8 .
during nighttime hours , because of the intense skywave propagation then prevailing , no large number of stations can be permitted to operate on one of these channels , if the wide area service for which these frequencies are assigned is to be rendered satisfactorily by the dominant stations which must be relied upon to render it .
on the remainder of the clear channels , the dominant ( class 1 ) -- b stations are protected as described above , and the relatively small number of secondary ( class 2 ) ) stations permitted to operate on these channels at night are required to operate directionally and/or with reduced power so as to protect the class 1 , stations .
additional class 2 , assignments for daytime operation can be made without causing destructive interference to the class 1 , stations or to each other , and by their operation provide additional service on these channels and additional local outlets for a large number of communities .
similarly , on the regional channels many class 3 , stations have been assigned either to operate daytime only or to operate nighttime with directional antennas and/or lower power .
essentially , the question presented for decision in the present daytime skywave proceeding is whether our decision ( in 1938-1939 ) to assign stations on the basis of daytime conditions from sunrise to sunset , is sound as a basis for am allocations , or whether , in the light of later developments and new understanding , skywave transmission is of such significance during the hours immediately before sunset and after sunrise that this condition should be taken into account , and some stations required to afford protection to other stations during these hours .
10 .
since then , there has been a notable increase in the number of stations and also the accumulation of additional data and the development of new techniques for using it , leading to a better understanding of propagation phenomena .
if you elect to use the standard deduction or the tax table , and later find you should have itemized your deductions , you may do so by filing an amended return within the time prescribed for filing a claim for refund .
the same is true if you have itemized your deductions and later decide you should have used the standard deduction or tax table .
when and where to file
if you use a fiscal year , a year ending on the last day of any month other than december , your return is due on or before the 15th day of the 4th month after the close of your tax year .
if the last day ( due date ) for performing any act for tax purposes , such as filing a return or making a tax payment , etc. , falls on saturday , sunday , or a legal holiday , you may perform that act on the next succeeding day which is not a saturday , sunday , or legal holiday .
if you mail a return or tax payment , you must place it in the mails in ample time to reach the district director on or before the due date .
if you were required to file a declaration of estimated tax for the calendar year 1961 , it is not necessary to pay the fourth installment otherwise due on january 15 , 1962 , if you file your income tax return form 1040 , and pay your tax in full for the calendar year 1961 by january 31 , 1962 .
farmers , for these purposes , have until february 15 , 1962 , to file form 1040 and pay the tax in full for the calendar year 1961 .
see chapter 38 .
their united states tax returns are due april 16 , 1962 .
nonresident aliens in puerto rico .
if a taxpayer dies , the executor , administrator , or legal representative must file the final return for the decedent on or before the 15th day of the 4th month following the close of the deceased taxpayer's normal tax year .
his return for the period january 1 to june 20 , 1961 , is due april 16 , 1962 .
in such a case , form 1310 should be completed and attached to the return .
returns of estates or trusts are due on or before the 15th day of the 4th month after the close of the tax year .
under unusual circumstances a resident individual may be granted an extension of time to file a return .
your application must include the following information : ( 1 ) your reasons for requesting an extension , ( 2 ) whether you filed timely income tax returns for the 3 preceding years , and ( 3 ) whether you were required to file an estimated return for the year , and if so whether you did file and have paid the estimated tax payments on or before the due dates .
extensions are not granted as a matter of course , and the reasons for your request must be substantial .
you should make any request for an extension early so that if it is refused , your return may still be on time .
extensions while abroad .
an extension of 2 months beyond the regular due date for filing is also available to taxpayers making returns for a fiscal year .
taxpayers residing or traveling in alaska are also allowed this extension of time for filing , but those residing or traveling in hawaii are not allowed this automatic extension .
you must attach a statement to your return , if you take advantage of this automatic extension , showing that you were in alaska or were outside the united states or puerto rico on april 15 or other due date .
interest at the rate of 6% a year must be paid on taxes that are not paid on or before their due date .
when payment is due .
if payment is by cash , you should ask for a receipt .
this bill should be paid within 30 days .
whether the check is certified or uncertified , the tax is not paid until the check is paid .
furthermore , a bad check may subject the maker to certain penalties .
refunds .
if you file form 1040a and the district director computes your tax , any refund to which you are entitled will be mailed to you .
refunds of less than $1 will not be made unless you attach a separate application to your return requesting such a refund .
send your return to the director of internal revenue for the district in which you have your legal residence or principal place of business .
if your principal place of abode for the tax year is outside the united states ( including alaska and hawaii ) , puerto rico , or the virgin islands and you have no legal residence or principal place of business in any internal revenue district in the united states , you should file your return with the office of international operations , internal revenue service , washington 25 , d.c. .
.
it is the amount you enter on line 9 , page 1 of form 1040 .
other deductions are subtracted only from adjusted gross income in arriving at taxable income .
( see chapter 6 .
businessmen deduct all ordinary and necessary expenses attributable to a trade or business .
if you hold property for the production of rents or royalties you subtract , in computing adjusted gross income , ordinary and necessary expenses and certain other deductions attributable to the property .
)
( see chapter 10 .
employees deduct expenses of travel , meals and lodging while away from home in connection with the performance of their services as employees .
( see chapter 12 .
( see chapter 10 .
sick pay , if included in your gross income , is deducted in arriving at adjusted gross income .
( see chapter 9 .
if you are a life tenant , you deduct allowable depreciation and depletion .
deductible losses on sales or exchanges of property are allowable in determining your adjusted gross income .
) 50% of capital gains .
( see chapter 24 .
certain other deductions are not allowed in determining adjusted gross income .
these deductions may not be claimed if you elect to use the standard deduction or tax table .
)
minors minors must also file returns if they earn $600 or more during the year .
his income is not required to be included in the return of his parent .
exemption also allowed parent .
see chapter 5 .
your 16 year old son earned $720 in 1961 .
since he had gross income of $600 or more , he must file a return in which he may claim an exemption deduction of $600 .
he may get a tax refund .
generally , the refund may be obtained by filing form 1040a accompanied by the withholding statement ( form w-2 ) .
see chapter 1 .
you may deduct these payments even though your child uses the money to purchase his own clothing or other necessities which you are normally obligated to furnish him , and even though you may be entitled to his services .
for such programs raise hopes of assistance toward achieving excellence in scholarship and the arts which are dashed when the programs are discontinued ; ;
for the making of selections on the basis of excellence requires that any foundation making the selections shall have available the judgments of a corps of advisors whose judgments are known to be good : such judgments can be known to be good only by the records of those selected , by records made subsequent to their selection over considerable periods of time .
they are chosen by the foundation's board of trustees on the bases of their own first-rate accomplishments in their different fields of scholarship and the arts .
for this concept of an advisory board , ancillary to the board of trustees , we are indebted to the late president of harvard university , a. lawrence lowell , a master of the subject of the structure of cultural institutions and their administration .
for , in accordance with mr. lowell's concept of an advisory board , our selections are made by experienced selectors who give both constancy and consistency to our processes and our choices .
-- of new members through the advisory board .
to the members of our advisory board , and most specially to its members who constitute our committees of selection , the foundation is indebted for its successes of choice of fellows .
and quality of advice , added to devotion to the foundation's purposes and ideals , we do get from our advisory board in measures so full that they can be appreciated only by those of us who work here every day .
for example , the interest of past members of the foundation's advisory board remains such that they place their knowledge and judgments at our disposal much as they had done when they were , formally , members of that board .
to all , the foundation gives the kind of thanks which are more than thanks : to them we are grateful beyond the possibility of conveying in words how grateful we are .
the same is true of every foundation .
dr. james brown fisk , physicist , president of the bell telephone laboratories , was elected to the board of trustees .
and he has served our country well as a scientific statesman on international commissions .
the trustees of the foundation appointed dr. ray to that position with the stated expectation that he would succeed the present secretary general upon the latter's eventual retirement .
referring further to the foundation's officers , dr. james f. mathias , for eleven years our discerning colleague as associate secretary , was promoted to be secretary .
also appointed to the foundation's staff , as assistant secretary , is mr. j. kellum smith , jr. .
and lawyers -- with the great virtues that they are trained to read `` the fine print '' carefully and are able out of professional experience to arrive at imaginative solutions to difficult problems in many fields -- are indispensable even in a foundation office .
but even he will not last indefinitely and the above-noted new arrangements are , quite simply , made to assure qualitative continuity in the foundation's policies and practices .
we are not given to lamentations , neither personally nor in these reports .
for , granting that there are great present-day problems to be solved , these problems make great demands ; ;
of this , examples are legion : pericles speaking his funeral oration in ancient greece's extremity after thermopylae and making it a testament of freedom ; ;
christ preaching the sermon on the mount , close to his ultimate sacrifice ; ;
keats's words -- in the days of the spanish armada's threats ; ;
winston churchill's olympian , optimistic and resolute sayings when britain stood alone against the armed forces of tyranny less than twenty years ago ; ;
forsan et haec olim meminisse iuvabit , as the roman poet , virgil , declared with much more historical sense than most writers of today .
and it is to be noted also that confidence should grow from remembering that great men often appeared in the past to turn local catastrophe into future good for all mankind .
and his genius moved his readers to seek solutions of those evils for all western men -- until today -- , in the industrialized west , these social evils substantially do not exist .
these were educated men , who , as mr. justice holmes was fond of saying , formed their inductions out of experience under the burden of responsibility .
nevertheless , they made naught of marx's prophecy that capitalism would never pay the `` workers '' -- to use marx's word -- more than a subsistence wage , with the consequence that increased productivity must inevitably find its way into the capitalists' pockets with the result , in turn , that the gap between the rich and the poor would irrevocably widen and the misery of the poor increase .
indeed , the contrary has happened .
and the reason this could happen is clear : men of government , business men , lawyers and all who concerned themselves with the welfare of their fellow men did not let their concern to run their businesses at a profit restrict the development of freedom and opportunity .
and even putting it that way would not prove that marx was anything but wrong .
the essence of contract is that one is free to make a choice of what one will or will not do .
the greater the range of freedom for individual men , the greater the range of choice ; ;
for change is dependent on the possibilities that individual men glimpse for the future .
the eternal truth is that progress -- due , as it always is , to individual creative genius -- is just as dependent on freedom as human life is dependent on the beating of the heart .
during the year 1959 , we granted 354 fellowships ; ;
as heretofore , our fellowships are available to assist research in all fields of knowledge and creative effort in all the arts .
indeed , if pressed , we would say what the late robert henri , american painter , said to a pupil , `` anything will do for a subject : it's what you do with it that counts '' .
we want no part in such discussions , because we think them largely futile ; ;
when the brown & sharpe manufacturing company reached its 125th year as a going industrial concern during 1958 , it became an almost unique institution in the mechanical world .
joseph r. brown grew up in the bustle and enterprise of new england between 1810 and 1830 .
at the age of 17 he became an apprentice machinist at the shop of walcott & harris in valley falls , rhode island , and following two or three other jobs in quick succession after graduation , he went into business for himself in 1831 , making lathes and small tools .
the years of joseph's partnership with his father were numbered .
joseph brown continued in business by himself , quickly rebuilding the establishment which had been lost in the fire and beginning those first steps which were to establish him as a pioneer in raising the standards of accuracy of machine shop practice throughout the world .
during these early years the repair of watches and clocks and the building of special clocks for church steeples formed an important part of the young man's occupation .
but his business also grew , and we are told that mr. brown found it increasingly difficult to devote as much time to his creative thinking as his inclinations led him to desire .
the young apprentice apparently did well by mr. brown , for in the third year of his apprenticeship lucian was offered a full partnership in the firm ; ;
mr. sharpe's arrival in the business did indeed provide what mr. brown had most coveted -- time for `` tinkering '' , and the opportunity of carrying out in the back room those developments in precision graduation which most interested him at that time .
the basic significance of this invention helped them to follow it rapidly in 1855 by the development of a unique precision gear cutting and dividing engine .
throughout their careers , both mr. brown and mr. sharpe were interested in the problem of setting up standards of measurement for the mechanical trades .
as one development followed another , the company's reputation for precision in the graduating field brought it broader and broader opportunities for expansion in precision manufacture .
as the story goes , mr. gibbs , who originally came from the back counties of the commonwealth of virginia , saw an illustration in a magazine of the famous howe sewing machine .
when he showed this model as his `` solution '' as to how the howe sewing machine operated , he was told he was `` wrong '' , and discovered to his amazement that the howe machine , which was unknown to him in detail , used two threads while the one that he had perfected used only one .
the new work was a boon to the partnership , not only for its own value but particularly for the stimulation it provided to the imagination of j. r. brown toward yet further developments for production equipment .
mr. brown made important additions to the arts in screw machine design by drastically improving the means for revolving the turret , by introducing automatic feeding devices for the stock , and reversible tap and die holders .
at that time , during the civil war , union muskets were being manufactured in providence and the drills to drill them were being hand-filed with rattail files .
the child of this problem was mr. brown's famous serial no. 1 universal milling machine , the archtype from which is descended today's universal knee-type milling machine used throughout the world .
during the civil war period mr. brown also invented the brown & sharpe formed tooth gear cutter , a basic invention which ultimately revolutionized the world's gear manufacturing industry by changing its basic economics .
as soon as the time came for re-sharpening , the precise form of the gear tooth was lost and a new cutter had to be made .
mr. brown's invention achieved this and , as a byproduct , formed the cornerstone of brown & sharpe's position of leadership in the gear making equipment field which lasted until the 1920's when superceded by other methods .
although mr. brown was not himself its inventor ( it was a french idea ) , it is typical that his intuition first conceived the importance of mass producing this basic tool for general use .
the final achievement of mr. brown's long and interesting mechanical career runs a close second in importance to his development of the universal milling machine .
this machine , like its milling counterpart , was the antecedent of a machine-family used to this very day in precision metalworking shops throughout the world .
following mr. brown's death , there came forward in the brown & sharpe organization many other men who contributed greatly to the development of the company .
as head of the firm darling & swartz , mr. darling began by challenging brown & sharpe to its keenest competition during the 1850's and early 60's .
between that year and the buying out of mr. darling's interest in 1892 , a large portion of the company's precision tool business was carried out under the name of darling , brown & sharpe , and to this day many old precision tools are in use still bearing that famous trademark .
also important on the brown & sharpe scene , at the turn of the century , was mr. richmond viall , works superintendent of the company from 1876 to 1910 .
he was an ardent champion of the brown & sharpe apprentice program and personal counselor to countless able men who first developed their industrial talents with the company .
commencing with the death of lucian sharpe in 1899 , the name of henry d. sharpe was for more than 50 years closely interwoven with the destiny of the company .
during the early part of this century , the brown & sharpe works in providence were unchallenged as the largest single manufacturing facility devoted exclusively to precision machinery and tool manufacture anywhere in the world .
it expanded from hand screw machines to automatic screw machines , from simple formed-tooth gear cutting machines to gear hobbing machines and a large contract gear manufacturing business , from rudimentary belt-driven universal milling machines to a broad line of elaborately controlled knee-type and manufacturing type milling machines .
in 1951 , henry d. sharpe , jr. succeeded his father and continued the company's development as a major factor in the metal-working equipment business .
the machine tool division is currently producing brown & sharpe single spindle automatic screw machines , grinding machines of many types , and knee and bed-type milling machines .
in the industrial products division , the company manufactures and markets a wide line of precision gaging and inspection equipment , machinists' tools -- including micrometers , vernier calipers , and accessories .
sales and net income for the year ended december 31 , 1960 showed an improvement over 1959 .
sales and other operating income increased 25.1% from $24,926,615 in 1959 to $31,179,816 in 1960 .
in spite of the fact that our largest market , the textile industry , was affected substantially by the current decline in business activity , we have been able to produce and deliver our machines throughout the year 1960 at a rate materially higher than during 1959 .
our current rate of incoming orders has now contracted and unless this trend can be reversed , our production for 1961 will be lower than for 1960 .
need for sound tax policy
such a depreciation policy would also , we believe , prove a very important factor in strengthening the competitive position of the u. s. textile and other industries , thus helping to strengthen the position of the dollar in foreign exchange .
our research and development program , serving as it does an industry which must compete against low-cost production throughout the world , continues to have primary emphasis at leesona .
such policy involves continuing effort to improve on existing mill equipment , in terms of efficiency and versatility .
budget increased
much of this necessary increase in research and development , though properly chargeable to current expenses , is not reflected in earnings until projects are completed and the new machines sold in quantity , usually over a period of several years .
in december we began to ship our ultra-high-speed stretch yarn machines .
during the past year , great progress has been made by the weaving mills in creating new stretch and textured fabrics .
this machine , operating at speeds up to 350,000 revolutions per minute , is believed to provide one of the fastest mechanical operations in industry today .
large-package twister
later in the year , additional types of this leesona twister will be made available to mills for other man-made fibers and natural yarns .
this we believe will substantially broaden the potential market for the equipment .
major activity at providence in 1961 will involve the scheduled completion of tooling for production of the uniconer automatic coning machine .
this machine was demonstrated in two textile machinery exhibitions last year and was well received by the industry .
the uniconer has several outstanding features -- it operates with much greater efficiency than existing equipment ; ;
because the bobbin-to-cone winding process is a relatively high-cost operation for the mill , the almost complete automation provided by the uniconer can mean important economies in textile production , at the same time upgrading quality .
new unifil application
take-up machines
it is equipped with electronic controls that can be set to hold precise tension and speed .
it is equipped with an automatic threading device to reduce waste and handling time .
we look forward to a stronger position in this expanding field .
we are interested in further diversification into other fields of capital goods , or components for industrial products , and have recently intensified our efforts in that direction .
our patterson moos research division has made further very encouraging progress in development of fuel cells .
in addition to its major effort on fuel cells , patterson moos research division is continuing to carry on research in other fields , both under contract for the defense department , other government agencies and for our own account .
we have recently entered into an agreement with compagnie generale de telegraphie sans fil ( csf ) of france for the exclusive exchange of technical information on thermoelectric materials .
initially we will import the thermoelectric materials and modules from france but later we will manufacture in this country .
further research , we believe , will develop important commercial applications .
we are initiating research on the use of solid state materials for infrared detection using a method which will not require cooling of materials to attain high sensitivity .
our plan is to keep abreast of these advances , and select for development those fields which seem most promising for our special capabilities .
early in august we broke ground for a new $3,500,000 plant in warwick , rhode island , which will house our textile and coil winding machinery operations .
all operations now carried on at our plant at cranston will be transferred to warwick .
an architect's sketch of the new plant is shown on the front cover .
however , its modern one-story layout is designed to increase our production capacity , permit more efficient manufacturing , and substantially reduce current repair and maintenance costs .
we have entered into an agreement for the sale of the present cranston properties , effective as soon as we have completed removal to our new plant .
during the year our british subsidiary , leesona-holt , limited , expanded its plant in darwen , england , and added machine tool capacity .
layout and equipment were modernized and improved to obtain increased production on an efficient basis .
in addition , land has been purchased to permit doubling the size of the plant in the future .
the new warwick plant is being built at our expense and under our direction .
we will then occupy the new plant under lease , with an option to purchase .
interim financing of construction costs is provided by a short term loan from the chase manhattan bank .
we believe that these improved facilities will contribute income and effect savings which will fully justify the investment .
inventories increased $625,561 to $8,313,514 during the year and should decline in coming months .
employee contracts
in addition , blue cross coverage for all employees and their dependents was extended to provide the full cost of semi-private hospital accommodations .
in addition to direct salaries and wages , the company paid or accrued during the year the following amounts for the benefit of employees :
at december 13 , 1960 the fund held by the industrial national bank of providence , as trustee for payment of past and future service pensions to qualified members of the plan , totaled $2,412,616 .
another growth factor is increased consumer demand for better quality and larger quantities of fabrics that go with a rising standard of living .
increased efficiency
as a designer and manufacturer of textile production machinery , leesona and other companies in its industry have sought to meet this challenge with new or improved equipment and methods that would increase production , yet maintain both quality and flexibility .
the problem of efficient production in textiles is complicated by the fact that the industry serves large markets which shift quickly with changes of fashion in apparel or home decoration .
in addition , production machinery must in many cases be designed to handle with equal efficiency both natural fibers and the increasing number of synthetics , as well as blends .
the carleton service fund provides the financial support for this program .
the college was one of the first to recognize the importance of music not only as a definite part of the curriculum but as a vital adjunct to campus life .
all students are invited to participate in any of the musical organizations for which they qualify .
the glee club is open to all students and faculty with no auditions necessary for membership .
student musical organizations are the knights of carleton and the overtones ( men's vocal groups ) , and the keynotes ( a women's singing group ) .
they perform at many campus social events .
from the founding of the college those responsible for its management have planned to provide its students favorable conditions for personal religious development and to offer opportunities through the curriculum and otherwise for understanding the meaning and importance of religion .
carleton aims throughout its entire teaching program to represent a point of view and a spirit which will contribute to the moral and religious development of its students .
the sermons are given by the college chaplain , by members of the faculty , or by guest preachers .
chapel services are held weekly .
the service is brief and variety in forms of worship is practiced .
attendance is required at the college service of worship or at the sunday evening program or at any regularly organized service of public worship .
attendance at the chapel service is voluntary .
the y.m.c.a. and y.w.c.a. at carleton are connected with the corresponding national organizations and carry out their general purposes .
the associations sponsor many traditional campus events and provide students with opportunities to form new friendships , to broaden their interests , and to engage in worthwhile service projects .
included are the following : baptist student movement , canterbury club ( episcopal ) , christian science organization , friends' meeting for worship , hillel ( jewish ) , liberal religious fellowship , lutheran student association , newman club ( roman catholic ) , presbyterian student fellowship , united student fellowship ( congregational-baptist ) , and wesley fellowship ( methodist ) .
the northfield churches include the following : alliance , congregational-baptist , episcopal , lutheran ( norwegian , danish , missouri synod , and bethel ) , methodist , moravian , pentecostal , and roman catholic .
the purpose of producing plays at the college is three-fold : to provide the carleton students with the best possible opportunity for theater-going within the limits set by the maturity and experience of the performers and the theatrical facilities available ; ;
and to develop a discriminating audience for good drama and sensitive performance .
for the 1960-1961 season , the carleton players have announced blood wedding by federico garcia lorca , the knight of the burning pestle by beaumont and fletcher and a moon for the misbegotten by eugene o'neill , with a pre-season production of the glass menagerie by tennessee williams .
this workshop , located in boliou hall , provides facilities for students to work in ceramics , weaving , enameling , welding , woodworking , textile printing , printmaking , and lapidary .
the workshop is open five afternoons and two evenings each week .
the group meets once a week in the boliou student workshop .
athletics
the physical education program for men recognizes the value of participation in competitive sports in the development of the individual student and aims to give every man an opportunity to enter some form of athletic competition , either intercollegiate or intramural .
a faculty committee on athletics , responsible to the faculty as a whole , exercises control over the athletic program of the college .
the policies which govern the program 2 .
the approval of athletic schedules 4 .
carleton is a member of the midwest collegiate athletic conference and abides by its eligibility rules .
a student who while in attendance at carleton college participates in an athletic contest during the school year , other than that sponsored by the college , shall be permanently ineligible to participate in intercollegiate athletics at carleton college and will also face permanent suspension from the institution .
2 .
the `` c '' club is composed of the men of the college who have won an official letter in carleton athletics .
this is done by encouraging the entire male student body to participate in either the intercollegiate or intramural sports program and by sponsoring the carleton cheerleaders .
the soccer club was organized by undergraduate men interested in playing soccer and promoting the sport .
practices are held regularly and the schedule of games is prepared by the student coach and the officers of the club .
this association , organized in 1920 , is affiliated with the athletic federation of college women .
the association is governed by a board made up of representatives from each of the four classes .
active groups sponsored by the organization include the saddle club , orchesis , golf club , tennis club , and dolphins .
orchesis , for students interested in the modern dance , contributes to the may fete and offers earlier in the year a modern dance demonstration .
the dolphins present a three-night water show the week of the may fete .
the association participates in the winter sports carnival and sponsors several play days with st. olaf and other nearby colleges .
throughout the year there are social events , such as picnics , breakfast hikes , canoe trips , banquets , and indoor parties .
in addition to the miscellaneous pamphlets and other printed matter which it issues , the college maintains regular publications , as follows :
the alumni fund report in september ; ;
an alumni reunion bulletin in april ; ;
the college also publishes each year the report of the treasurer and a monthly newsletter entitled carleton college comments .
at intervals an alumni directory is issued .
in january , 1960 , the first issue of the carleton miscellany , a quarterly literary magazine , was published by the college .
student publications
( see page 100 .
the publications board holds annual competitive examinations for places on the editorial and business staffs .
the paper affords excellent practice for students interested in the field of journalism .
the algol serves as a record of campus organizations and student activities during the year .
members of the algol staff are nominated by the editor and business manager and appointed by the publications board .
it is the purpose of this magazine to serve as an outlet for student creative writing .
campus broadcasting station
over a hundred students participate in the planning and production of the daily program schedule .
student government
the carleton social co-operative is a standing committee of the carleton student association .
in recent months , much attention has been given to the probable extent of the current downtrend in business and economists are somewhat divided as to the outlook for the near future .
the shift in sentiment from excessive optimism early in the year to the present mood of caution has probably been a good thing , in that it has prevented the accumulation of the burdensome inventories that have characterized many previous swings in the business cycle .
in the electronics industry , this tendency is well illustrated by inventories of tv sets .
the total value of our industry's shipments , at factory prices , increased from $9.2 billion in 1959 to approximately $10.1 billion as a result of increases in all of the major segments of our business -- home entertainment , military , industrial , and replacement .
home entertainment sales up
sales of tv sets at retail ran ahead of the like months of 1959 through july ; ;
for the year as a whole , retail sales of tv sets probably came to 5.8 million against 5.7 million in 1959 ; ;
in contrast to the lower turnout of tv , total radio production increased from 15.4 million sets to 16.7 million ( excluding export ) .
sales and production of home sets were about equal at 10.4 million units .
separate phonographs also had a good year , reflecting the growing popularity of stereo sound and the same tendency on the part of the consumer to upgrade that characterized the radio-tv market .
i would expect that sales at retail in the first half of 1961 might be below 1960 by some 10 - 15% but that second-half levels should show a favorable comparison , with a possibility of quite strong demand late in the year if business conditions recover as some recent forecasts suggest they will .
i therefore believe it is realistic to assume a modest drop in the total value of home entertainment electronics to about $1.8 million , slightly below 1960 , but above 1959 .
1960 witnessed another substantial increase in our industry's shipments of military electronics , which totalled about $5.4 billion compared to $4.9 billion in 1959 .
it has been correctly pointed out by well-informed people in the industry that it is probably unrealistic to expect a continuation of the yearly growth of 15% or better that characterized the decade of the 1950's , and that our military markets may be entering upon a new phase in which procurement of multiple weapons systems will give way to concentration of still undeveloped areas of our defense capability .
among the items scheduled for acceleration in the near future are the polaris and b70 programs , strengthening of the airborne alert system of the strategic air command , and improved battlefield surveillance systems .
research , development test and evaluation funds , devoted to missiles in 1960 were 3 to 4 times as large as those devoted to aircraft , and actual missile procurement is expected to exceed aircraft procurement by 1963 .
it has been estimated that spending by the national aeronautics and space administration will rise from less than $500 million in fiscal 1960 to more than $2 billion by 1967 , and that the electronic industry's share of these expenditures will be closer to 50% than the current 20% .
although the impact of these increases on our industry's shipments will be gradual , on balance i look for another good increase in shipments in the coming year , to at least $6 billion .
paced by the continuing rapid growth of electronic data processing , sales of industrial and commercial electronic equipment totalled $1.8 billion compared to $1.6 billion in 1959 .
informed estimates look for this market to approximately quadruple by the late 1960's , under the stimulus of new applications in the fields of banking and retailing , industrial process control , and information storage and retrieval .
for the near term , however , it must be realized that the industrial and commercial market is somewhat more sensitive to general business conditions than is the military market , and for this reason i would expect that any gain in 1961 may be somewhat smaller than those of recent years ; ;
replacement parts
this is now a $1.0 billion business , up from $0.9 billion in 1959 , and should reach $1.1 billion in 1961 .
demand for parts for home entertainment was strong in the first half , but purchases were cut back to lower levels during the fall as set manufacturers reduced their own operating rates .
sales of transistors in 1960 exceeded $300 million , compared to $222 million in 1959 despite substantial price reductions in virtually all types .
sales of passive components , such as capacitors and resistors , although not growing as fast as those of semi-conductors were ahead of 1959 this year , and should increase again in 1961 .
as i have indicated above , i base this feeling on a belief that current weakness in the market for consumer durable goods may continue through the early months of the year , but will give way to a sufficiently strong recovery later on to bring the full-year figures close to those of 1960 ; ;
and on continued growth in the applications of electronics to the complex problems of manufacturing and trade in the expanding but competitive economy of the 1960's .
mr. devey will be responsible for the commercial expansion of vectrol's line of electronic and electrical power control components as furnished to end equipment manufacturers , working closely with walter j. brown , president and director of engineering of the recently acquired sprague subsidiary .
mr. devey's new responsibilities are in addition to those of his present post as marketing manager of sprague's special products group , which manufactures a wide line of digital electronic components , packaged component assemblies , and high temperature magnet wires .
during world war 2 , , he was a lieutenant commander in the united states navy .
he was named product manager of the special products division of sprague when it was founded in 1958 , and was later promoted to his present post .
mr. brown , well-known , english-born inventor , prior to founding vectrol was at various times section leader in radio research at metropolitan vickers electrical co. , ltd. ; ;
director of engineering at philco of great britain , ltd. , and vice president in charge of production and assistant to the president at the brush development co. , cleveland , ohio .
mr. brown presently has over 130 patents to his credit dating back to 1923 .
he is a member of the institution of electrical engineers , london , a registered professional engineer in connecticut and ohio , and a chartered electrical engineer in great britain .
the appointment was made in a move to expand the engineering services offered to the designers of electronic systems through assistance in electro-magnetic compatability problems .
since these duties fit neatly with those of the proposed presidential aide , one person , with adequate staff assistance , could fill both jobs .
the faculty believes that broad autonomy is necessary to preserve its freedom in teaching and scholarship .
he may welcome their appropriate participation in the determination of high policy , but he has a right to expect , in return , that they will leave administrative matters to the administration .
there is little evidence that they are giving any systematic thought to a general theory of the optimum scope and nature of their part in government .
they , too , need to learn to delegate .
although faculties insist on governing themselves , they grant little prestige to a member who actively participates in college or university government .
he can , for example , present significant university-wide issues to the senate .
by making certain that no faculty member has too many committee assignments ; ;
by minimizing the number of committees .
the cause is as often neglect as hesitance to disclose .
the need for interchange and understanding makes vital the full use of all methods of consultation .
the president has little influence in day-by-day curricular changes , but if he looks ahead two , three , or five years to anticipate issues and throw out challenging ideas , he can open the way for innovation , and he can also have a great deal to say as to what path it will take .
the critical task for every president and his academic administrative staff is to assure that the college or university continually rebuilds and regenerates itself so that its performance will match changing social demands .
deans can form an important bridge between the president and the faculty .
the president who appoints strong men who have an all-college or university point of view and a talent and respect for administration can count on useful assistance .
the administration at the same time , looks to the chairmen for strategic aid in building stronger departments .
the quality of a president's leadership is measured first by his success in building up the faculty .
indirectly he can best help them by insuring that rigorous criteria for appointment and promotion are clearly set forth and adhered to .
an alert dean will confer all through the year on personnel needs , plans for the future , qualifications of those on the job , and bright prospects elsewhere .
they evaluate and nominate candidates for appointment and promotion .
at some colleges and universities , a faculty committee reviews and reports to the administration on the qualifications of candidates .
they can be effective , however , if their members set high standards for candidates and devote substantial time to the work .
before the president recommends a candidate to the trustees , the administration collects the views of colleagues in the same field of knowledge on campus and elsewhere .
no good way to evaluate teaching ability has yet been discovered , although some institutions use inventory sheets for a list of criteria .
there are certain aspects of personnel development in which a president must involve himself directly .
no one can be as effective as the president in inspiring older men to welcome imaginative new teachers whose philosophy or approach to their specialties is quite different .
on those rare occasions when a faculty member on tenure is not meeting the standards of the institution , the president must also bear the ultimate burden of decision and action .
recently colleges and universities have begun to translate their educational philosophy into institution-wide goals .
or shall we permit early specialization in scientific and technological subjects ? ?
in the second , more shops , laboratories , and staff will be required .
trustees , faculty , and administration can consider the consequences of decisions before they are made , instead of afterwards .
proposed new programs can be examined for appropriateness to goals and for present and future financial fitness .
it inspires confidence in his institution's determination to establish goals and to achieve them .
the first step is a comprehensive self study made by faculty , by outside consultants , or by a combination of the two .
implementation of the master plan will inevitably be uneven .
others may drag their feet .
a plan must therefore be brought up to date periodically , possibly with the assistance of a permanent planning officer .
some offices have very broad responsibilities , touching on almost all aspects of a university's instructional program .
more often , these offices are restricted to the gathering of empirical data .
no matter how high the hopes and dreams of educators , budget making adjusts them to the cold realities of dollars and cents .
its principal features should be a product of his most considered judgment .
he reviews and shapes the work of others to mold a single joint product that will best promote the aims of the institution .
because scientific instruction and research involve increasingly large sums of money , an institution should choose its fields of prominence .
in the national interest even the affluent universities must consider some division of labor among them to replace their present ambitions to keep up with the joneses in all branches .
here the reasonable mastery of the elements of administration can do much to free a president for his primary role .
the president should find strong subordinates and delegate the widest discretion to them .
just as the entire faculty should know the president's educational philosophy and objectives , so should non-academic officers .
a president is frequently besieged to serve in non-academic civic and governmental capacities , to make speeches to lay groups , and to make numerous ceremonial appearances on and off campus .
declinations and substitutions are better received when he explains why his obligations to his institution preclude his acceptance .
1 .
it has recently become practical to use the radio emission of the moon and planets as a new source of information about these bodies and their atmospheres .
when sufficiently accurate and complete measurements are available , it will be possible to set limits on the thermal and electrical characteristics of the surface and subsurface materials of the moon .
radio observations of venus and jupiter have already supplied unexpected experimental data on the physical conditions of these planets .
this result suggests a very high temperature at the solid surface of the planet , although there is the possibility that the observed radiation may be a combination of both thermal and non-thermal components and that the observed spectrum is that of a black body merely by coincidence .
of the remaining planets , only mars and saturn have been observed as radio sources , and not very much information is available .
the low intensity of the radiation from saturn has limited observations , but again the measured radiation seems to be consistent with a thermal origin .
in spite of this , the very large radio reflectors and improved amplifying techniques which are now becoming available should make it possible to observe the radio emission of most of the planets in a few years .
this was followed by a comprehensive series of observations of the 1.25-cm emission of the moon over three lunar cycles by piddington and minnett ( 1949 ) .
that the amplitude of the variation was considerably less than the amplitude of the variation in the infrared emission as measured by pettit and nicholson ( 1930 ) and pettit ( 1935 ) ; ;
piddington and minnett explained their observations by pointing out that rocklike materials which are likely to make up the surface of the moon would be partially transparent to radio waves , although opaque to infrared radiation .
since the absorption of radio waves in rocklike material varies with wave length , it should be possible to sample the temperature variation at different depths beneath the surface and possibly detect changes in the structure or composition of the lunar surface material .
this sporadic type of planetary radiation is discussed by burke ( chap. 13 ) and gallet ( chap. 14 ) .
in the relatively short time since these early observations , venus has been observed at additional wave lengths in the range from 0.8 to 10.2 cm , and jupiter has been observed over the wave-length range from 3.03 to 68 aj .
the maximum angular diameter of any planetary disk as observed from the earth is about 1 minute of arc .
it should be possible , however , to put useful limits on the diameters of the radio sources by observing with large reflectors or with interferometers .
there have been few measurements specifically for the determination of the polarization of planetary radiation .
recent interferometer measurements ( radhakrishnan and roberts , 1960 ) have shown the 960-mc emission of jupiter to be partially polarized and to originate in a region of larger diameter than the visible disk .
the concept of apparent black-body temperature is used to describe the radiation received from the moon and the planets .
the apparent black-body disk temperature is the temperature which must be assumed for the black body in order that the intensity of its radiation should equal that of the observed radiation .
the radio radiation of the sun which is reflected from the moon and planets should be negligible compared with their thermal emission at centimeter wave lengths , except possibly at times of exceptional outbursts of solar radio noise .
at meter wave lengths an increase of the order of 10-degrees in the average disk temperatures of the nearer planets would be expected .
2 .
2.1 observations
observations have also been made at 1.5 mm using optical techniques ( sinton , 1955 , 1956 , ; ;
not all the observers have used the same procedures or made the same assumptions about the lunar brightness distribution when reducing the data , and this , together with differences in the methods of calibrating the antennae and receivers , must account for much of the disagreement in the measured radio brightness temperatures .
these observations indicate that the lunar maria heat up more rapidly and also cool off more rapidly than do the mountainous regions .
these contour diagrams also suggest a rather rapid falloff in the radio brightness with latitude .
the constant-temperature contours are much smoother than those observed at 4.3 mm by coates ( 1959 ) and apparently the emission at 8 mm is not nearly so sensitive to differences in surface features .
the observations of mayer , mccullough , and sloanaker at 3.15 cm and of sloanaker at 10.3 cm have not previously been published and will be briefly described .
the half-intensity diameter of the antenna beam was about 9' , and the angle subtended by the moon included the entire main beam and part of the first side lobes .
the ratio of the measured antenna temperature change during a drift scan across the moon to the average brightness temperature of the moon over the antenna beam ( assuming that the brightness temperature of the sky is negligible ) was found , by graphical integration of the antenna directivity diagram , to be 0.85 .
the result of the observations is af where the phase angle , q , is measured in degrees from new moon and the probable errors include absolute as well as relative errors .
the variation in the 3-cm emission of the moon during a lunation is very much less than the variation in the 8.6-mm emission , as would be expected from the explanation of piddington and minnett ( 1949 ) .
the 10.3-cm observation of sloanaker was made on may 20 , 1958 , using the 84-foot reflector at the maryland point observatory of the u. s. naval research laboratory .
the half-intensity diameter of the main lobe of the antenna was about 18'.5 , and the brightness temperature was reduced by assuming a gaussian shape for the antenna beam and a uniformly bright disk for the moon .
experiments were made on an electric arc applying a porous graphite anode cooled by a transpiring gas ( argon ) .
it was shown that by proper anode design the net energy loss of the arc to the anode could be reduced to approximately 15% of the total arc energy .
the anode ablation could be reduced to a negligible amount .
qualitative observations were made and high-speed motion pictures were taken to study flow phenomena in the arc at various mass flow velocities .
the high heat fluxes existing at the electrode surfaces of electric arcs necessitate extensive cooling to prevent electrode ablation .
in free-burning electric arcs , for instance , approximately 90% of the total arc power is transferred to the anode giving rise to local heat fluxes in excess of af as measured by the authors -- the exact value depending on the arc atmosphere .
the higher heat transfer rates at the anode compared with those at the cathode can be explained by the physical phenomena occurring in free burning arcs .
the heat transfer to the anode is due to the following effects : 1 .
this energy transfer depends on the current , the temperature in the arc column , the anode material , and the conditions in the anode sheath .
heat transfer by molecular conduction as well as by radiation from the arc column .
this phenomenon has been experimentally investigated in detail by maecker ( ref. 1 ) .
hence , the flow conditions at the anode of free burning arcs resemble those near a stagnation point .
the gas flow through a plasma generator will modify these conditions ; ;
an attempt to improve the life of the anodes or the efficiency of the plasma generators must , therefore , aim at a reduction of the anode loss .
the use of high voltages and low currents by proper design to reduce electron heat transfer to the anode for a given power output .
continuous motion of the arc contact area at the anode by flow or magnetic forces .
feedback of the energy transferred to the anode by applying gas transpiration through the anode .
the purpose of the present study is to study the thermal conditions and to establish an energy balance for a transpiration cooled anode as well as the effect of blowing on the arc voltage .
a detailed study of this latter phenomenon was not attempted in this paper .
the anode material was porous graphite .
however , technical difficulties arise by melting at local hot spots .
thus , direct comparisons can be drawn with free burning arcs which have been studied in detail during the past years and decades by numerous investigators ( ref. 3 ) .
figures 1 to 3 show photographic and schematic views of the test stand and of two different models of the anode holder .
this tube could be adjusted in its axial direction by an electric drive to establish the required electrode spacing .
the transpiring gas ejected from the anode formed a jet directed axially towards the cathode below .
argon was also blown at low velocities ( mass flow rate af ) through a tube coaxial with the cathode as an additional precaution against contamination of the arc by air .
the graphite was national carbon nc 60 , which has a porosity of 50% and an average pore size of 30 .
the anode plug ( figure 2 ) was inserted into a carbon anode holder .
it was exposed to a high velocity gas jet .
this arrangement had the purpose to prevent heated gas to reach the thermocouple by natural convection .
three thermocouples were placed at different locations in the aluminum disk surrounding the anode holder to determine its temperature .
in this design the anode holder is water cooled and the heat losses by conduction from the anode were determined by measuring the temperature rise of the coolant .
in addition , the inner surface of the carbon shield was covered with aluminum foil to reduce radiation .
the argon flow from commercial bottles was regulated by a pressure regulator and measured with a gas flow rator .
at 100 amp the 360 cycle ripple was less than 0.5 v ( peak to peak ) with a resistive load .
the arc voltage was measured with a voltmeter whose terminals were connected to the anode and cathode holders .
a high frequency starter was used to start the arc .
1 .
the anode holder shown in figure 2 was designed with two goals in mind .
in order to reduce the number of variable parameters , all experiments were made with a constant arc length of 0.5'' '' and a current of 100 aj .
the lower limit was determined by the fact that for smaller flow rates the arc started to strike to the anode holder instead of to the porous graphite plug and that it became highly unstable .
this region which had a higher temperature than the rest of the anode surface changed size and location continuously .
to measure the surface temperature of the anode plug , the surface was scanned with a pyrometer .
its temperature was denoted by af .
the rest of the surface had a temperature which decreased towards the outer diameter of the plug .
it was denoted by af .
assuming thermal equilibrium between the anode surface and the transpiring argon , the gas enthalpy rise through the anode was calculated according to the relation af whereby the specific heat of argon was taken as af .
the upstream gas temperature measured with the thermocouple shown in figure 2 was af .
simultaneously with the anode surface temperature and voltage measurements pyrometer readings were taken along the cylindrical surface of the carbon anode holder as indicated on figure 2 .
they showed no marked dependence on the flow rate within the accuracy of these measurements .
the thermocouples in the aluminum disk shown in figure 2 indicated an equilibrium temperature of the surface of af .
it is sufficiently small compared with the surface temperature of the anode holder , to make the energy flux radiated from the environment toward the anode holder negligible within the accuracy of the present measurements .
the total heat loss through the anode holder included also the heat conducted through the base of the cylindrical piece into the adjacent metal parts .
the total heat flux from the porous plug into the plug holder is thereby af .
the temperature dependent value of **ye was taken from ref. 7 .
a band viscometer is shown in figure 2 .
there is a small well in the top in which the fluid or paste to be tested is placed .
in normal use weights are hung on the end of the tape and allowed to pull the tape and the material to be tested between the blocks .
by the use of various weights , data for a force-rate of shear graph can be obtained .
in this test a af tape was pulled between the blocks with a motor and pulley at a rate of af with a clearance of 0.002'' '' on each side of the tape .
this , however , can only be considered approximate , as the diameter of the pulley was increased by the build-up of tape and the tape was occasionally removed from the pulley during the runs .
although there were only four fluids tested , it was apparent that there were two distinct types .
figure 3 shows the data on a silicone fluid , labeled 12,500 cps which gave a high positive normal pressure .
a system had to be used which did not depend upon the feeding of the fluid into the manometer if measurements of the normal pressure were to be made in a reasonable time .
by this method it was determined that the normal pressure exerted by a sample of polybutene ( molecular weight reported to be 770 ) was over half an atmosphere .
the two fluids which gave the small negative pressures were polybutenes with molecular weights which were stated to be 520 and 300 .
the maximum suction was 3.25'' '' of test fluid measured from the top of the block , and steady states were apparently reached with these fluids .
this negative pressure is not explained by the velocity head af since this is not sufficient to explain the readings by several magnitudes .
however , they do demonstrate the presence of large normal pressures in the presence of flat shear fields which were forecast by the theory in the first part of the paper .
such an instrument would be useful for the characterization of many commercial materials as well as theoretical studies .
such an instrument is expected to be especially useful if it could be used to measure the elasticity of heavy pastes such as printing inks , paints , adhesives , molten plastics , and bread dough , for the elasticity is related to those various properties termed `` length '' , `` shortness '' , `` spinnability '' , etc. , which are usually judged by subjective methods at present .
if the volume is the molal volume , then af is obtained on a molal basis which is the customary terminology of the chemists .
consider a shear field with a height of h and a cross-sectional area of a opposed by a manometer with a height of h ( referred to the same base as h ) and a cross-sectional area of a .
af is the work necessary to fill the manometer column from the reference height to h .
the minimum total potential energy is found by taking the derivative with respect to h and equating to zero .
this is interesting for it combines both the thermodynamic concept of a minimum gibbs function for equilibrium and minimum mechanical potential energy for equilibrium .
the relation between osmotic pressure and the gibbs function may also be developed in an analogous way .
this can be justified thermodynamically in this case , and this will be done in a separate paper which is being prepared .
there is one exception to the above statement as has been pointed out , and that is that fluids can relax by flowing into fields of lower rates of shear , so the statement should be modified by stating that the mechanics are similar .
the concept of the strain energy as a gibbs function difference af and exerting a force normal to the shearing face is compatible with the information obtained from optical birefringence studies of fluids undergoing shear .
according to philippoff , the recoverable shear s is given by af where **yc is the angle of extinction .
there is another means which should show the direction and relative value of the stresses in viscoelastic fluids that is not mentioned as such in the literature , and that is the shape of the suspended drops of low viscosity fluids in shear fields .
these droplets appear to be ellipsoids , and it is mathematically convenient to assume that they are .
the direction of the tension of minimum pressure is , of course , given by the direction of the major axis of the ellipsoids .
( some suspensions break up before they are near to the direction of shear , and some become asymptotic to it without breakup .
the relative forces can be calculated from the various radii of curvature if we assume : ( a ) the surface tension is uniform on the surface of the drop .
( c ) the kinetic effects are negligible .
these are reasonable assumptions with low viscosity fluids suspended in high viscosity fluids which are subjected to low rates of shear .
this formula is given by rumscheidt and mason .
there are no data published in the literature on the shape of low viscosity drops to confirm the above formulas .
this viscosity of the material in the drops is , of course , not negligible .
if it is assumed that the formula given by lodge of cosec af applies , the pressure difference along the major axes can be calculated from the angle of inclination of the major axis , and from this the interfacial tension can be calculated .
this appears to be high , as would be expected from the appreciable viscosity of the material in the drops .
the internal energy of an ideal gas depends on temperature only and is independent of pressure or volume .
this means that work equals q which in turn equals af .
this is known as conformational entropy .
note that though the ideal gas itself contains no additional energy , the compressed gas does exert an increased pressure .
a proton magnetic resonance study of polycrystalline af as a function of magnetic field and temperature is presented .
the lines are asymmetric and over the range of field af gauss and temperature af the asymmetry increases with increasing af and decreasing t .
the general theory of resonance shifts is used to derive a general expression for the second moment af of a polycrystalline paramagnetic sample and is specialized to af .
the experimental second moment af conforms to the relation af in agreement with theory .
the paramagnetic dipole effects provide some information on the particle shapes .
introduction
it is important to consider and experimentally verify this influence since quantitative nuclear resonance is becoming increasingly used in investigations of structure .
we first discuss the af bond in af .
indeed it is possible to separate electron paramagnetic from nuclear effects .
af bond in af
moreover , it will be asymmetric until a certain critical af distance is reached , below which it will become symmetric .
the af distance in af is 2.26 aj .
here the af distance is 2.44 aj .
douglass has studied the crystal structure of af by x-ray diffraction .
there is , then , the possibility that this af bond is symmetric , although douglass was unable to determine its symmetry from his x-ray data .
x-ray and experimental density showed one formula unit in the unit cell , corresponding to a paramagnetic ion density of af .
under this assumption the space group must be af and the following are the positions of the atoms in the unit cell .
this space group requires the hydrogen bond to be symmetric .
these data lead to a structure in which sheets of cr atoms lie between two sheets of o atoms .
the af layers are stacked normal to the ( 111 ) axis with the lower oxygens of one layer directly above the upper oxygens of the neighboring lower layer , in such a manner that the repeat is every three layers .
a drawing of the structure is to be found in reference 6 .
the structure appears to be unique among ooh compounds , but is the same as that assumed by af .
however , the possible absence of a center of symmetry not only moves the hydrogen atom off af , but also allows the oxygen atoms to become nonequivalent , with af at af and af at af ( space group af ) , where af represents the oxygens on one side of the af layers and af those on the other side .
hence it is difficult to conceive of a packing of the atoms in this material in which the oxygen atoms are far from geometrical equivalence .
if the af bond is linear then there are three reasonable positions for the hydrogen atoms : ( 1 ) the hydrogen atoms are centered and hence all lie on a sheet midway between the oxygen sheets ; ;
( 3 ) hydrogen atoms are asymmetrically placed , either randomly or in an ordered way , so that some hydrogen atoms are closer to the upper oxygen atoms while others are closer to the lower oxygen atoms .
a randomization of `` ups '' and `` downs '' is more likely than ordered `` ups '' and `` downs '' in position ( 3 ) since the hydrogen atoms are well separated and so the position of one could hardly affect the position of another , and also since ordered `` up '' and `` down '' implies a larger unit cell , for which no evidence exists .
experimental procedures
douglass prepared his sample of af by thermal decomposition of aqueous chromic acid at 300 - 325-degrees-c .
this material proved to be unsatisfactory , since we could not obtain reproducible results on various portions of the sample .
since af is ferromagnetic , we felt that any results obtained from the magnetically contaminated af would be suspect .
500 ml of 1m aqueous af with 1 af added are heated in a bomb at 170-degrees-c for 48 hours .
differential thermal analysis showed a very small endothermic reaction at 340-degrees-c and a large endothermic reaction at 470-degrees-c .
thermogravimetric analysis showed a weight loss of 1.8% centered at 337-degrees-c and another weight loss of 10.8% at 463-degrees-c .
mass spectrometric analysis of gases evolved upon heating to 410-degrees-c indicated nitrogen oxides and water vapor .
all subsequent measurements were made on material which had been heated to 375-degrees-c for one hour .
chromium analysis gave 58.8% cr as compared with 61.2% theory .
the x-ray diffraction pattern of the material , taken with cuk**ya radiation , indicated the presence of no extra lines and was in good agreement with the pattern of douglass .
af was found to be paramagnetic with three unpaired electrons per chromium atom and a molecular susceptibility of af , where af .
an infrared spectrum , obtained by h. a. benesi and r. g. snyder of this laboratory , showed bands in the positions found by jones .
the particles appeared rough and undoubtedly the single-crystal domains are smaller than this .
we found no obvious effects due to preferred orientation of the crystallites in this sample nor would we expect to on the basis of the shape found from electron microscopic examination .
the magnetic resonance absorption was detected by employing a varian model af broad line spectrometer and the associated 12-inch electromagnet system .
a bridged-t type of bridge was used in the 10 - 16 mc/sec range .
a modulation frequency of 40 cps with an amplitude as small as possible , commensurate with reasonably good signal-to-noise quality , was used .
the spectrometer was adjusted to minimize the amount of dispersion mode mixed in with the absorption signal .
the value of af estimated at 470 gauss was af microseconds .
this measurement was obtained by w. blumberg of the university of california , berkeley , by observing the breadth of the free induction decay signal .
field shifts were derived from the mean value of the resonance line , defined as the field about which the first moment is zero .
corrections were applied for modulation broadening , apparatus background , and field shift .
for the low-temperature measurements the sample was cooled by a cold nitrogen gas flow method similar to that of andrew and eades .
one sample , which had been exposed to the atmosphere after evacuation at 375-degrees-c , showed the presence of adsorbed water ( about 0.3 wt ) ) as evidenced by a weak resonance line which was very narrow at room temperature and which disappeared , due to broadening , at low temperature .
the measured powder density of the af used here was about af , approximately one-third that of the crystal density ( af ) .
spectra were obtained from a powdered sample having the shape of a right circular cylinder with a height-to-diameter ratio of 4 : :
the top of the sample was nearly flat and the bottom hemispherical .
the bubble was filled to the top and special precautions were taken to prevent any sample from remaining in the capillary .
this sample was contained in a cylindrical container similar to that described above .
the market today for detergent builders is quite diverse .
these widely advertised products , which are used primarily for washing clothes , are based on high-sudsing , synthetic organic actives ( sodium alkylbenzenesulfonates ) and contain up to 50% by weight of sodium tripolyphosphate or a mixture of sodium tripolyphosphate and tetrasodium pyrophosphate .
light-duty synthetic detergents with much less builder ; ;
a well-publicized entrant which has achieved success only recently is the built liquid detergent , with which the major problem today is incorporation of builder and active into a small volume using a sufficiently high builder/active ratio .
the better quality products in both of these lines contain phosphate builders .
many scouring powders now also contain phosphates .
the cleaning process
wet cleaning involves an aqueous medium , a solid substrate , soil to be removed , and the detergent or surface-active material .
one gram of cotton has been found to have a specific surface area of af .
even here there is room for some variation , for metal surfaces vary in smoothness , absorptive capacity , and chemical reactivity .
there are considerable differences between the requirements for textile and hard-surface cleaning .
no matter how they are formulated , a large number of organic actives are simply not suitable for this application , since they do not give adequate soil removal .
a good formulation will keep the clothes clean and white after many washings ; ;
since practical washing procedures are both lengthy and expensive , a number of laboratory tests have been developed for the numerical evaluation of detergents .
also given are several laboratory wash procedures in general use .
in this way , numerical values for the relative efficacy of various detergent formulations can be obtained by measuring the reflectance ( whiteness ) of the cloth swatches before and after washing .
as is the case with the surface-active agent , the requirements for builders to be used in detergent compositions for washing textiles are also high .
the problems of hard-surface cleaning are not nearly as complex .
indeed , when the proper inorganic constituents are employed , practically any wetting or surface-active agent will do a reasonably good job when present in sufficient amount in a hard-surface cleaning formulation .
in addition , the polyphosphates are also used , probably acting more as peptizing agents than anything else .
physical chemistry of washing
the purpose of washing is , obviously , to remove soils which are arbitrarily classed in the four major categories given below : 1 .
2 .
3 .
4 .
the dirt on the soiled objects is mechanically held by surface irregularities to some extent .
this is a theoretically complicated dipole interaction which causes any extremely small uncharged particle to agglomerate with other small uncharged particles , or to stick to an uncharged surface .
likewise , a charged particle will tend to stick to an uncharged surface and vice versa , and a charged particle will be very strongly attracted to a surface exhibiting an opposite charge .
greases , stains , and miscellaneous soils are usually sorbed onto the soiled surface .
in an essentially static system , an oil cannot be replaced by water on a surface unless the interfacial tensions of the water phase are reduced by a surface-active agent .
greasy soils are hardly removed by washing in plain water ; ;
therefore , detergents are used .
the other constituents in a built detergent assist in this and in the removal of dirty stains and the hydrophilic sticky or dried soils .
physicochemical investigations of anionic surfactants , including the soaps , have shown that there is little polymerization or agglomeration of the chain anions below a certain region of concentration called the critical micelle concentration .
( 2 ) in the critical micelle region , there is a rapid agglomeration or polymerization to give the micelles , which have a degree of polymerization averaging around 60 - 80 .
obviously hydrophobic ( oleophilic ) substances such as greases , oils , or particles having a greasy or oily surface are more at home in the center of a micelle than in the aqueous phase .
although the matter has not been unequivocally demonstrated , the available data show that micelles in themselves do not contribute significantly to the detergency process .
in the cleaning process , sorbed greasy soils become coated in this manner with an oriented film of surfactant .
obviously , a substance which is permanently or temporarily sorbed on the surface in place of the soil will tend to accelerate this process and effectively push off the greasy soil .
this is particularly true of highly charged ions , especially those ions which fall into the class of polyelectrolytes .
thus , for aqueous media , we can think of the idealized organic active as an oleophilic or hydrophobic surface-active agent , and of an idealized builder as a oleophobic or hydrophilic surface-active agent .
the charged particles then repel each other and are also repelled from the charged surface , which almost invariably bears a negative charge under washing conditions .
this hypothesis is evolved in analogy to the demonstrated action of organic actives in detergency .
the crude picture of the detergency process thus far developed can be represented as : af .
freed soil must be dispersed and protected against flocculation .
it is evident that the requirements imposed by these effects upon any one detergent constituent acting alone are severe .
in the over-all process , it is difficult to assign a `` pure '' role to each constituent of a built-detergent formulation ; ;
the thermal exchange of chlorine between af and liquid af is readily measurable at temperatures in the range of 180-degrees and above .
in the gas phase , with af of af and af of af , quantum yields of the order of af have been observed at 85-degrees .
it appears possible to set a lower limit of about af for the activation energy of the abstraction of a chlorine atom from a carbon tetrachloride molecule by a chlorine atom to form af radical .
introduction
it would appear that it should be possible to determine unique mechanisms for the thermal and photochemical reactions in both the liquid and gas phases and to determine values for activation energies of some of the intermediate reactions of atoms and free radicals , as well as information on the heat of dissociation of the carbon-halogen bond .
it should be possible to prepare very pure chlorine by oxidation of inorganic chlorides on a vacuum system followed by multiple distillation of the liquid .
furthermore , the exchange would not be expected to be sensitive to trace amounts of impurities because it would not be apt to be a chain reaction since the activation energy for abstraction of chlorine by a chlorine atom would be expected to be too high ; ;
contrary to these expectations we have found it impossible to obtain the degree of reproducibility one would wish , even with extensive efforts to prepare especially pure reagents .
experimental
-- matheson highest purity tank chlorine was passed through a tube of resublimed af into an evacuated pyrex system where it was condensed with liquid air .
the purified product was stored at -78-degrees in a tube equipped with a break seal .
to prepare the latter , silver chloride was precipitated from a solution containing af obtained from the oak ridge national laboratory .
previously purified chlorine was subsequently admitted and the exchange was allowed to take place .
liter quantities of mallinckrodt , low sulfur , reagent grade carbon tetrachloride were saturated with af and af and illuminated for about 50 hours with a 1000 watt tungsten lamp at a distance of a few inches .
purified inactive chlorine was then added from one of the tubes described above and the mixture frozen out and sealed off in a flask equipped with a break seal .
the required amount of carbon tetrachloride was distilled into a series of reaction cells on a manifold on a vacuum line .
the contents of the manifold for liquid phase experiments were then mixed by shaking , redistributed to the reaction tubes , frozen down , and each tube was then sealed off .
this method in general solved the problem of obtaining fairly equal concentrations of reactants in each of the six cells from a set .
-- the samples for liquid phase thermal reaction studies were prepared in pyrex capillary tubing 2.5 mm. i.d. and about 15 cm. long .
both types of tube withstood the pressure of approximately 20 atmospheres exerted by the carbon tetrachloride at 220-degrees .
these cells were used rather than square pyrex tubing because of the tendency of the latter to shatter when thawing frozen carbon tetrachloride .
two types of light source were used , a thousand watt projection lamp and an ah6 high pressure mercury arc .
relative incident light intensities were measured with a thermopile potentiometer system .
following reaction the cells were scratched with a file and opened under a 20% aqueous sodium iodide solution .
after titration of the liberated af with af , aliquots of the aqueous and of the organic phase were counted in a solution-type geiger tube .
the fraction of exchange was determined as the ratio of the counts / minute observed in the carbon tetrachloride to the counts / minute calculated for the carbon tetrachloride fractions for equilibrium distribution of the activity between the chlorine and carbon tetrachloride , empirically determined correction being made for the difference in counting efficiency of af in af and af .
the thermal reaction .
experiments were done at 180 , 200 , 210 , and 220-degrees .
in addition to the method described in the section above , chlorine and radiochlorine were prepared by the electrolysis of a af eutectic on the vacuum line , and by exchange of af with molten af .
no correlation between these variables and the irreproducibility of the results was found .
in most cases the chlorine concentration was about af .
no detectable reaction was found at room temperature for reaction mixtures allowed to stand up to 5 hours .
the liquid phase photochemical exchange between chlorine and carbon tetrachloride was more reproducible than the thermal exchange , although still erratic .
rather large differences were still found between reaction cells from different manifold fillings .
in all cases there was readily measurable exchange after as little as one hour of illumination .
it was possible to make estimates of the quantum yield by observing the extent of reduction of a uranyl oxalate actinometer solution illuminated for a known time in a typical reaction cell and making appropriate conversions based on the differences in the absorption spectra of uranyl oxalate and of chlorine , and considering the spectral distribution of the light source .
when typical reaction cells to which 0.3 of an atmosphere of oxygen had been added were illuminated , chlorine and phosgene were produced .
the photochemical exchange in the gas phase .
data on such comparisons together with data on the effect of light intensity are given in table 1 .
in series 1 , the relative light intensity was varied by varying the distance of the lamp from the reaction cell over the range from 14.7 to 29.2 cm. .
direct proportionality of the rate to the incident intensity has also been assumed in obtaining the value in the last column for the fourth sample of series 2 , where the light intensity was reduced by use of a screen .
wyatt and whipple , 1950 ) , which is a retardation of the orbital motion of particles by the relativistic aberration of the repulsive force of the impinging solar radiation , causes the dust to spiral into the sun in times much shorter than the age of the earth .
whipple ( 1955 ) extends the effects to include the solar-corpuscular-radiation pressure , which increases both the minimum particle size and the drag .
the poynting-robertson effect causes the semi-major axis of orbits to diminish more rapidly than the semi-minor axis , with a consequent tendency toward circular orbits as the particles move toward the sun .
at one astronomical unit from the sun ( the earth's distance ) the dust orbits are probably nearly circular .
de jager ( 1955 ) has calculated the times required for these particles to reach the atmosphere under the influence of the poynting-robertson effect , which in this case causes the orbits to become more and more eccentric without changing the semi-major axis .
since there is a continual loss of micrometeoritic material in space because of the radiation effects , there must be a continual replenishment : otherwise , micrometeorites would have disappeared from interplanetary space .
according to whipple ( 1955 ) , cometary debris is sufficient to replenish the material spiraling into the sun , maintaining a fairly steady state .
it is also possible that some of the dust in the vicinity of the earth originated from meteoritic impacts upon the moon .
one cannot make a very satisfactory guess about the micrometeorite flux in space .
this large discrepancy demonstrates the inadequacies of the experimental methods and the lack of understanding of the various phenomena involved .
at greater distances from the sun , the situation is still less certain .
direct information has been obtained from rockets and satellites equipped with impact sensors .
from the brightness of the f component of the solar corona and the brightness of the zodiacal light , an estimate of the particle sizes , concentrations , and spatial distribution can be derived for regions of space near the ecliptic plane .
the cores of deep-sea sediments and content of collectors in remote regions are valuable in this category .
the direct evidence on the micrometeorite environment near the earth is obtained from piezoelectric sensors ( essentially microphones ) and from wire gages ; ;
statistically , the most significant data have been collected from the sensors on 1958 alpha ( explorer 1 ) , 1958 delta 2 ( sputnik 3 ) , and 1959 eta ( vanguard 3 ) .
many other vehicles with smaller sensitive-area exposure-time products contribute some information .
this mass threshold was derived from the detector calibration and an assumed impact velocity of af .
ninety per cent of the 153 recorded impacts occurred between midnight and noon , and from day to day the variation of the rate was as much as an order of magnitude .
there have been contradictory reports from 1958 delta 2 , and the data quoted here are believed to be the more reliable .
for the next two days , the impact rate was af ; ;
the data for the first day indicate a meteor stream with a very high concentration of particles and may have led to the high estimates of micrometeorite flux .
the day-to-day rate varied by less than a factor of 4.5 .
note that the mass threshold is four times that of 1958 alpha and that the flux is one fifth as large .
space probes have yielded little information .
with detectors sensitive to three mass intervals and based on a few counts , the second and third russian space probes indicate that the flux of the smallest particles detected is less than that of larger ones .
the calibration of piezoelectric sensors in terms of the particle parameters is very uncertain .
however , one must expect that vaporization and ejection of material by hypervelocity impacts would cause a deviation from a linear relationship .
the russian experimenters claim that only a small fraction of the impulse from the sensors is caused by the incident momentum with the remainder being momentum of ejected material from the sensor .
they quote about the same mass threshold as that of the u.s. apparatus , but a momentum threshold about 40 times greater .
the threshold mass is derived from the momentum threshold with the assumption of a mean impact velocity of af in the u.s. work and af in the u.s.s.r. work .
however , the conversion from mass to size is unreliable , since many photographic meteors give evidence of a fluffy , loosely bound meteorite structure with densities as low as af .
the velocity value used is also open to some question ; ;
zodiacal light and the gegenschein give some evidence for such a dust blanket , a phenomenon also to be expected if the dust before capture is in circular orbits about the sun , as indicated by the trend of the smaller visible meteors .
the flux of micrometeorites in the neighborhood of the earth can be estimated by extrapolation from radar and visual meteor data .
from an estimated mass of 25 g for a zero-magnitude meteorite , the other masses are derived with the assumption of a mass decrease by a factor of 2.512 for each unit increase in magnitude .
the flux values are for all particles with masses greater than the given mass and are based on an estimate of the numbers of visual meteors .
the values agree with the data from 1958 alpha and 1959 eta .
hence , these figures apply immediately above the earth's atmosphere .
these figures constitute the best estimate for the flux in interplanetary space near the earth .
note that the mass scale is one to two orders of magnitude greater than some previously used ; ;
the older scales were based on theoretical estimates of the conversion efficiency of kinetic energy into light .
a concentration distribution has been derived from radar observations sensitive to the fifteenth magnitude ( manning and eshleman , 1959 ) .
the approximate equation is af , where n is the number of af with electron line-density greater than or equal to af , and q is proportional to the mass of the meteorite .
at the fifteenth magnitude , af , and at the twenty-fifth magnitude , af .
the extrapolation may be in error for several reasons .
the solar-electromagnetic- and corpuscular-radiation pressure and the associated poynting-robertson effect increase in effectiveness as the particle size decreases and modify the distribution and limit sizes to larger than a few microns .
5.4 .
a measure of the total mass accretion of meteoritic material by the earth is obtained from analyses of deep-sea sediments and dust collected in remote regions ( pettersson , 1960 ) .
for all meteorites , the average nickel content is about 2.5 per cent .
present data indicate an accretion of about af tons per year over the entire globe , or about af .
biological warfare is the intentional use of living microorganisms or their toxic products for the purpose of destroying or reducing the military effectiveness of man .
man may also be injured secondarily by damage to his food crops or domestic animals .
the major reason for this is that it has no quick-kill effect .
a man can be an effective fighting machine throughout the incubation period of most infectious diseases .
an important operational procedure in bw for an enemy would be to create an areosol or cloud of agent over the target area .
the biological and physical properties of infectious particles have been studied intensively during the past fifteen years .
much information has been gathered relative to quantitative sampling and assesment techniques .
the intranasal instillation of a fluid suspension of infectious agent in an anesthetized animal is far different from exposure , through natural respiration , to aerosolized organisms .
the natural anatomical and physiological defensive features of the upper respiratory tract , such as the turbinates of the nose and the cilia of the trachea and larger bronchi , are capable of impinging out the larger particles to which we are ordinarily exposed in our daily existence .
this area is highly susceptible to infection .
the relationship between particle size and infectious dose is illustrated in table 1 .
for example , bright sunlight is rapidly destructive for living microorganisms suspended in air .
neutral or inversion meteorological conditions are necessary for a cloud to travel along the surface .
there are , of course , certain times during the 24-hour daily cycle when most of these conditions will be met .
the smaller the particle the further it will travel downwind before settling out .
there may be a number of secondary effects resulting from diffusion through buildings such as widespread contamination of kitchens , restaurants , food stores , hospitals , etc. .
the secondary consequences from this could be very serious and must be taken into consideration in planning for defense .
in the first trial an inert substance was disseminated from a boat travelling some ten miles off shore under appropriately selected meteorological conditions .
this material fluoresces under ultraviolet light which facilitates its sampling and assessment .
figure 1 describes the results obtained in this trial .
from these dosage isopleths it can be seen that an area of over 34,000 square miles was covered .
the behavior of a biological aerosol , on a much smaller scale , is illustrated by a specific field trial conducted with a non-pathogenic organism .
a satisfactory cloud was produced even though these nozzles were only about 5 per cent efficient in producing an initial cloud in the size range of 1 to 5 microns .
the spraying operation was conducted from the rear deck of a small naval vessel , cruising two miles off-shore and vertical to an on-sure breeze .
this operation was started at 5:00 p.m. and lasted for 29 minutes .
a network of sampling stations had been set up on shore .
a rough attempt was made to characterize the vertical profile of the cloud by taking samples from outside the windows on the first , ninth , and fifteenth floors of a government office building .
in this instance , there was a dosage of 562 during the first two hours and a total dosage of 1980 for the four-hour period , a four-fold increase .
as can be seen from figure 2 , an extensive area was covered by this aerosol .
as can be seen from these dosage isopleths , approximately 100 square miles was covered within the area sampled .
the dosages in the three levels of the vertical profile were : af
this was not , of course , enough sampling to give a satisfactory description of the vertical diffusion of the aerosol .
some agents have been shown to be much more toxic or infectious to experimental animals when exposed to aerosols of optimum particle size than by the natural portal .
in some instances a different clinical disease picture may result from this route of exposure , making diagnosis difficult .
an enemy would obviously choose an agent that is believed to be highly infectious .
an agent would likely be selected which would possess sufficient viability and virulence stability to meet realistic minimal logistic requirements .
in this connection it should be capable of being disseminated without excessive destruction .
an aggressor would use an agent against which there was a minimal naturally acquired or artificially induced immunity in a target population .
it must be remembered , however , that there are many agents for which there is no solid immunity and a partial or low-grade immunity may be broken by an appropriate dose of agent .
an enemy might choose an acutely debilitating microorganism , a chronic disease producer or one causing a high rate of lethality .
mutants may also be developed with changes in biochemical properties that are of importance in identification .
biological agents are , of course , highly host-specific .
this may be of overriding importance in considering military objectives .
only a limited effort has been devoted to this problem .
they then point out that with our present lack of knowledge of all the factors concerned in the rise and fall of epidemics , it is unlikely that a planned episode could be initiated .
this is why this approach to bw defense has not been given major attention .
this , of course , does not eliminate from consideration for this purpose agents that are associated naturally with epidemic disease .
let us assume that it would be possible for an enemy to create an aerosol of the causative agent of epidemic typhus ( rickettsia prowazwki ) over city a and that a large number of cases of typhus fever resulted therefrom .
lousiness is a prerequisite for epidemic typhus .
this was done with full knowledge that there would be no epidemic .
one might expect some spread of the disease in this case resulting in increased effectiveness of the attack .
it should be no more difficult to deliver such devices than other weapons .
if it is possible for an enemy to put an atomic bomb on a city , it should be equally possible to put a cloud of biological agent over that city .
a few obvious target areas of great importance might be mentioned .
america is rapidly becoming a nation that uses processed , precooked and even predigested foods .
one must include the preparation of soft drinks and the processing of milk and milk products .
a variety of techniques have been directed toward the isolation and study of blood group antibodies .
modifications of the last technique have been applied by several groups of investigators .
speer and coworkers , in a similar study of blood group antibodies of whole sera , used a series of gradients for elution from aj .
in the present work whole sera have been fractionated by chromatography on deae-cellulose using single gradients similar to those described by sober and peterson , and certain chemical and serological properties of the fractions containing antibodies of the abo and rh systems have been described .
samples .
three of the anti-rh sera used were taken from recently sensitized individuals .
the second contained incomplete antibody and showed titers of 1 : 256 in albumin and 1 : 2048 by the indirect coombs test .
in addition one serum was obtained from a donor ( r. e. ) who had been sensitized 6 years previously .
these antibody titers were determined by reaction with homozygous af red cells .
anti-a and anti-b activities were determined in fractions from the sera of group a , group b or group o donors by the following tube agglutination methods .
in several instances group o cells were also used as controls .
the mixtures of sample plus cell suspension were allowed to stand at room temperature for 1 aj .
for the albumin method , equal volumes of 30% bovine albumin , sample and 2% cells suspended in saline were allowed to stand at room temperature for 1 hr and then were centrifuged at 1000 rpm for 1 aj .
the activities of fractions of sera containing rh antibodies were tested by the saline , albumin and indirect coombs techniques .
however , in the interest of clarity and conciseness only the results obtained with homozygous af and homozygous af cells will be presented here .
the saline tubes were saved and used for the indirect coombs test in the following manner .
the anti-human sera used were prepared by injecting whole human serum into rabbits .
the red cells for the rh antibody tests were used within 3 days after drawing except for the af cells , which had been glycerolized and stored at -20-degrees-c for approximately 1 year .
the cells were then washed three times with saline and resuspended to 2% in saline .
blood samples were allowed to clot at room temperature for 3 hr , centrifuged and the serum was removed .
this buffer , ph 8.6 , was 0.005 m in af and 0.039 m in tris(hydroxymethyl)-aminometha ( tris ) .
the deae-cellulose , containing 0.78 meq of n/g , was prepared in our laboratory by the method of peterson and sober ( 7 ) from powdered cellulose , 100 - 230 mesh .
the chromatography was done at 6-degrees-c using gradient elution , essentially according to sober and peterson .
the other , a shallow concave gradient ( fig. 1 ) , was produced with a so-called `` cone-sphere '' apparatus , the `` cone '' being a 2-liter erlenmeyer flask and the `` sphere , '' a 2-liter round-bottom flask .
in the sphere was starting buffer and in the cone was final buffer , 0.50 m in both af and tris , ph 4.1 .
approximately 165 fractions were obtained from each column .
paper electrophoresis .
during the latter procedure the temperature was maintained at 2-degrees-c by surrounding the apparatus with ice .
paper electrophoresis was carried out on the concentrated samples in a spinco model r cell using barbital buffer , ph 8.6 , ionic strength 0.075 , at room temperature on whatman 3mm filter paper .
when paper electrophoresis was to be used for preparation , eight strips of a whole serum sample or a chromatographic fraction concentrated by negative pressure dialysis were run/chamber under the conditions described above .
the unstained strips were then marked , using the stained ones as a guide , and cut transversely so as to separate the various protein bands .
ultracentrifugation .
they were then centrifuged at 59,780 pm for 35 to 80 min at 20-degrees-c in a spinco model e ultracentrifuge at a protein concentration of 1.00 to 1.25% .
for preparative ultracentrifugation , fractions from the column were concentrated by negative pressure dialysis to volumes of 1 ml or less , transferred to cellulose tubes and diluted to 12 ml with isotonic saline .
successive 1-ml fractions were then drawn off with a hypodermic syringe , starting at the top of the tube , and tested for agglutinin activity .
experimental and results
with either of the gradients described , chromatography on deae-cellulose separated agglutinins of the abo series into at least three regions ( figs. 1 and 2 ) : one of extremely low anionic binding capacity , one of low anionic binding capacity and one of high anionic binding capacity .
when the early part of the gradient was flattened , either by using the gradient shown in fig. 2 or by allowing the `` cone-sphere '' gradient to become established more slowly , region 2 activity could sometimes be separated into two areas ( donors p. j. and r. s. , fig. 1 and e. m. , fig. 2 ) .
in 2 of 15 experiments on whole serum a region of agglutinin activity with intermediate anionic binding capacity was detected ( region 3 , fig. 1 ) .
not all these regions exhibited equal agglutinating activity , as evidenced by titer and the extent of the active areas .
this was particularly noticeable in group a and group b sera , in which cases activity in regions 1 and 2 was usually not detectable without prior concentration and occasionally could not be detected at all .
several samples of citrated plasma were fractionated in our laboratory by method 6 of cohn et al .
as expected , most of the activity was found in fraction af , with slight activity seen in fraction 4-1 .
once again , both anti-a and anti-b activities were found in the insoluble material precipitated during dialysis .
chromatography of whole sera revealed that the areas of rh antibody activity were generally continuous and wide .
the complete , in the latter part .
in all cases the activity against af cells was spread over a wider area than that with af cells , regardless of the type of test ( saline , albumin , indirect coombs ) used for comparison .
in fact agglutination of af cells in saline could be produced by the insoluble material from sera containing `` only '' incomplete antibody activity .
when the insoluble fraction was suspended in a volume of saline equal to that of the original serum sample , no complete antibody activity could be detected .
occasionally , you may come across one or two bumblebees in the cold season , when you are turning over sods in your garden , but you have to be a really keen observer to see them at all .
i must add at once that these animals are what we call `` queens '' , young females that have mated in the previous summer or autumn .
even some of the queens will die before the winter is over , falling prey to enemies or disease .
now the thing for us to do is to find ourselves a couple of those wonderful flowering currants such as the red ribes sanguineum of our pacific northwest , or otherwise a good sloe tree , or perhaps some nice pussy willow in bloom , preferably one with male or staminate catkins .
it is a happy , buzzing crowd .
it is not difficult to see that the stamens of the catkin are always arranged in pairs , and that each individual flower is nothing but one such pair standing on a green , black-tipped little scale .
those are the nectaries or honey glands ( fig. 26 , page 74 ) .
a marvelous arrangement , for it provides exactly what the bee queens need to make their beebread , a combination of honey and pollen with which the young of all species are fed .
i will deal with these later on .
as we have already seen in the first chapter , bumblebees are bigger , hairier , and much more colorful than honeybees , exhibiting various combinations of black , yellow , white and orange .
there must be several dozen species in the united states alone .
if we manage to keep track of a bombus queen after she has left her feeding place , we may discover the snug little hideout which she has fixed up for herself when she woke up from her winter sleep .
most species seem to prefer a ready-made hollow such as a deserted mouse nest , a bird house , or the hole made by a woodpecker ; ;
once she has made up her mind , the queen starts out by constructing , in her chosen abode , a small `` floor '' of dried grass or some woolly material .
she also builds one or two waxen cups which she fills with honey .
the queen afterward keeps incubating and guarding her eggs like a mother hen , taking a sip from time to time from the rather liquid honey in her honey pots .
she continues to add to the pollen supply as needed .
each now makes a tough , papery cocoon and pupates .
the first worker bees do not mate or lay eggs ; ;
the broods of workers that appear later tend to be bigger than the first ones , probably because they are better fed .
simultaneously , males or drones are produced , mostly from the unfertilized eggs of workers , although a few may be produced by the queen .
it is an amazing fact that in some species this will happen while the summer is still in full swing , for instance , in august .
at the old nest , the queen will in the early fall cease to lay the fertilized eggs that will produce females .
the nest itself , the structure that in some cases housed about 2,000 individuals when the season was at its peak , is now rapidly destroyed by the scavenging larvae of certain beetles and moths .
some members of the bee family have become idlers , social parasites that live at the expense of their hardworking relatives .
female individuals of psithyrus look deceptively like the workers and queens of the bumblebees they victimize .
the female parasite spends much time in her efforts to find a nest of her host .
the hosts never seem to recognize that something is amiss , so that the compartment afterward is sealed normally .
later on , they and the mother psithyrus are fed by the bombus workers .
but let us return , after this gruesome interlude , to our willow catkins in the spring ; ;
it is almost certain that some of these , usually a trifle smaller than the honeybees , are andrenas or mining bees .
one of my favorites is a. armata , a species very common in england , where it is sometimes referred to as the lawn bee .
almost equal in size to a honeybee , a. armata is much more beautiful in color , at least in the female of the species : a rich , velvety , rusty red .
after having mated , an andrena female digs a hole straight down into the ground , forming a burrow about the size of a lead pencil .
the development of the andrena larvae is very rapid , so that by the end of spring they have already pupated and become adults .
their appearance , next spring , coincides in an almost uncanny way with the flowering of their host plants .
this must be due to a completely identical response to the weather , in the plant and the animal .
although andrena is gregarious , so that we may find hundreds and hundreds of burrows together , we must still call it a solitary bee .
after all , social life in the group of the bees is by no means general , although it certainly is a striking feature .
the way in which it transports its pollen is not so perfect , either .
still andrena will do a reasonably good job , so that an animal with a full pollen load looks like a gay little piece of yellow down floating in the wind .
nomia melanderi can be found in tremendous numbers in certain parts of the united states west of the great plains , for example , in utah and central washington .
often the burrows are only an inch or two apart , and the bee cities cover several acres .
in most places , there are two generations a year , a second brood of adults appearing late in the summer .
this may just be pride in my adopted state of washington , but certainly i love to visit their mound cities near yakima and prosser in july or august , when the bees are in their most active period .
sometimes , although by no means always , these are indeed alkaline .
yet the water in the ground should not be stagnant either .
where does one find such conditions ? ?
many other ( probably nearly all ) snakes at maturity are already more than half their final length .
felix kopstein states that `` when the snake reaches its maturity it has already reached about its maximal length '' , but goes on to cite the reticulate python as an exception , with maximum length approximately three times that at maturity .
he was working with species of java , so perhaps some tropical snakes are unusual in this respect .
additional records of slow growth have been omitted .
there seems to be a rough correlation between the initial and ultimate lengths , starting with the smallest ( boa constrictor ) and ending with the largest ( anaconda ) .
for four of the six ( the anaconda and the amethystine python cannot be included for lack of data ) there is also a correlation between size at maturity and maximum length , the boa constrictor being the smallest and the indian python the next in size at the former stage .
if , in a certain part of the range , it starts life 1 foot longer than do any of the other ( relatively large ) giants , and reaches maturity at , let us guess , 18 inches longer than the others , a quadrupling of the maturity length would result in a maximum of ( nearly ) 40 feet .
the african rock python , a close second , is followed in turn by the reticulate python .
it seems likely that the indian python comes out ahead because records of its growth have been made more carefully and frequently ; ;
i cannot make sense out of the figures for post maturity growth ; ;
until better records have been kept over longer periods of time and much more is known about the maximum dimensions , it will be wise to refrain from drawing conclusions .
the best way to determine the correct figure ( in captives ) is by direct observation of pairs isolated from birth , a method that produced surprising results : maturing of a male indian python in less than two years , his mate in less than three ; ;
another approach is to estimate from the rate of growth and the smallest size at maturity .
only the amethystine python and the anaconda must be excluded for lack or paucity of data .
oliver , in his summary of the habits of the snakes of the united states , could supply data on the maturing period for only three species in addition to the rattlers , which i shall consider separately .
red-bellied snake ( storeria ) , two years ; ;
klauber investigated the rattlesnakes carefully himself and also summarized what others have found .
other herpetologists have ascertained that in the northern united states the prairie rattlesnake may not give first birth until it is four or even five years old , and that the young may be born every other year , rather than annually .
maximum length
measurements of skins are of little value ; ;
in spite of all the pitfalls , there is a certain amount of agreement on some of the giants .
the relatively wild conditions still found in tropical south america might be responsible .
the first is the strictly scientific , which demands concrete proof and therefore may err on the conservative side by waiting for evidence in the flesh .
the next level attempts to weigh varied evidence and come to a balanced , sensible conclusion ; ;
the third level leans on a belief that a lot of smoke means some fire .
the mere piling up of testimony does not prove , to the scientific mind , the existence of hoop snakes , joint snakes , or ghosts .
bernard heuvelmans also treats of the largest snakes , but on the third level , and is chiefly concerned with the anaconda .
he rejects dimensions of 70 feet and more .
detailed information on record lengths of the giants is given in the section that follows .
discussions of the giants one by one will include , as far as possible , data on these aspects of growth : size at which life is started and at which sexual maturity is reached ; ;
rate of growth both before and after this crucial stage ; ;
definite information on the growth of senile individuals is lacking .
at birth , this species varies considerably in size .
lawrence e. griffin gives measurements of nineteen young anacondas , presumably members of a brood , from `` south america '' ; ;
raymond l. ditmars had two broods that averaged 27 inches .
william beebe reports 26 inches and 2.4 ounces ( this snake must have been emaciated ) for the length and the weight of a young anaconda from british guiana .
beebe had a 3-foot anaconda that weighed only 9.8 ounces .
i have little information on the anaconda's rate of growth .
it is very unlikely that either of these anacondas was growing at a normal rate .
he concluded that the anaconda's maximum length is 12 or 13 ( perhaps 14 ) meters , which would approximate from 39 to 42 feet ( 14 meters is slightly less than 46 feet ) .
the most convincing recent measurement of an anaconda was made in eastern colombia by roberto lamon , a petroleum geologist of the richmond oil company , and reported in 1944 by emmett r. dunn .
oliver's 37-1/2 feet is partly based on this report and can be accepted as probable .
it is possible that especially large anacondas will prove to belong to subspecies limited to a small area .
boa constrictor :
this birth length seems to be typical .
the range is from 14 to 25 inches ; ;
however , as so many of the records are not certainly based on newborn snakes , these data must be taken tentatively ; ;
alphonse r. hoge's measurements of several very young specimens from brazil suggest that at birth the female is slightly larger than the male .
carl kauffeld has written to me of sexual activity in february 1943 of young born in march 1940 .
the female from central america which gave birth to four was only 3 feet 11 inches long .
unfortunately , no one has kept complete records of one individual , whereas many have been made for a very short period of time .
the bronchus and pulmonary artery in this lung type maintain a close relationship throughout .
another marked difference is noted here .
the bronchial artery , except for a small number of short branches in the hilum , contributes none of the pleural blood supply .
no bronchial artery-pulmonary artery anastomoses were noted in this group .
it is characterized by the presence of incompletely developed secondary lobules ; ;
the most distal airways are similar to those found in type 1 , , being composed of numerous , apparently true terminal bronchioles and occasional , poorly developed respiratory bronchioles ( figs. 14 , 15 ) .
air-drifts from one area to another are , therefore , conceivable .
this relationship , however , is not maintained centrally .
the bronchial artery in its course and distribution differs somewhat from that found in other mammals .
as in type 1 , , it provides arterial blood to the interlobular septa , and an extremely rich anastomotic pleural supply is seen ( figs. 9 , 10 ) .
such a dual derivation was strikingly demonstrated during the injection process where initial filling would be noted to occur in several isolated pleural vessels at once .
with completion of filling , net-like anastomoses were noted to be present between these separately derived branches .
this was accounted for primarily by the presence of a bronchial artery closely following the pulmonary artery .
in distal regions its diameter would be one-fourth to one-fifth that of the pulmonary artery .
also three other direct pathways of alveolar bronchial arterial supply were noted : via the pleura ; ;
and along the terminal bronchiole ( figs. 14 , 17 , 18 , 19 ) .
discussion
the significance of these differences has not been studied nor has the existence of corresponding physiologic differences been determined .
the volume and , perhaps , even the characteristics of bronchial arterial blood flow might be different in the dog than in the horse .
probably occur in the horse much as in the human being ; ;
a reason for such wide variation in the pulmonary morphology is entirely lacking at present .
for example , the marked susceptibility of the monkey to respiratory infection might be related to its delicate , long alveolar ducts and short , large bronchioles situated within a parenchyma entirely lacking in protective supportive tissue barriers such as those found in types 1 , and 3 .
in addition , it would be difficult to imagine chronic generalized emphysema occurring in a cow , considering its marked lobular development but , conversely , not difficult to imagine this occurring in the horse or the dog .
the only area in which one might find major disagreement in this matter is in regard to the alveolar distribution of the bronchial arteries .
in 1951 , this was reaffirmed by cudkowicz .
apparently , however , miller has relied heavily on the anatomy in dogs and cats , and he has been criticized for using pathologic human material in his normal study ( loosli , '38 ) .
'25 ) .
however , this artery is known to be a nutrient vessel with a distribution primarily to the proximal airways and supportive tissues of the lung .
theoretically , they are capable of extracting their required oxygen either from the surrounding air ( ghoreyeb and karsner , '13 ) or from pulmonary arterial blood ( comroe , '58 ) .
if this be true , the possibility exists that an occlusive lesion of the bronchial arteries might cause widespread degeneration of supportive tissue similar to that seen in generalized emphysema .
the presence of normally occurring bronchial artery-pulmonary artery anastomoses was first noted in 1721 by ruysch , and thereafter by many others .
miller ( '50 ) is the principal antagonist of this viewpoint .
as early as 1913 ghoreyeb and karsner demonstrated with perfusion studies in dogs that bronchial artery flow would remain constant at a certain low level when pressure was maintained in the pulmonary artery and vein , but that increases in bronchial artery flow would occur in response to a relative drop in pulmonary artery pressure .
our own studies in which bronchial artery-pulmonary artery anastomoses were demonstrated , were accomplished by injecting the bronchial artery first with no pressure on the pulmonary artery or vein , and then by injecting the pulmonary artery and vein afterwards .
this viewpoint is further supported by verloop's ( '48 ) demonstration of thickened bronchial artery and arteriolar muscular coats which are capable of acting as valves .
in addition , little work has been done on a comparative basis in regard to the normal existence of bronchial artery-pulmonary artery anastomoses .
'49 ) found these shunts in the human being but was unable to find them in rats .
nakamura ( '58 ) was unable to demonstrate their existence , either by anatomic or physiologic methods , in dogs .
certainly , the mere fact of failing to demonstrate them in one or another species does not conclusively deny their existence in that species .
in conclusion , these findings suggest the need for a comparative physiology , pathology , and histology of mammalian lungs .
also , for the present , great caution should be exercised in the choice of an experimental animal for pulmonary studies if they are to be applied to man .
finally , it is suggested that in many respects the horse lung may be anatomically more comparable to that of the human than any other presently known species .
the main subgross anatomical features of the lungs of various mammals are presented .
type 1 , is represented by the cow , sheep , and pig ; ;
type 3 , , by the horse .
absent in type 2 ; ;
the pleura and interlobular septa are thick in types 1 and 3 .
arterial supply to the pleura in types 1 and 3 is provided by the bronchial artery , and in type 2 , by the pulmonary artery .
in type 3 the bronchial artery also provides blood directly to the alveolar capillary bed .
well developed respiratory bronchioles , on the other hand , appear to be the only form taken by the distal airways in type 2 .
this may be due to the heavy interlobular connective tissue barriers present .
some of the features of the top portions of figure 1 and figure 2 were mentioned in discussing table 1 .
in contrast , 20 of the 21 lines in the completion profile ( excluding center 5 for boys and 4 for girls ) are bunched and extend over a much shorter period , approximately 30 months for boys and 40 months for girls .
second , for both sexes , the 21 transverse lines in the onset profile vary more in individual spread than those in the completion profile .
third , the process of calcification is seen to begin later and to continue much longer for these boys than for the girls , a fact which confirms data for other groups of children .
it is convenient to classify a child's onset ages and completion ages as `` advanced '' , `` moderate '' ( modal ) , or `` delayed '' according to whether the child's age equivalent `` dots '' appeared to the left of , upon , or to the right of the appropriate short transverse line .
such classifications may be called `` somewhat advanced '' or `` somewhat delayed '' , as the case may be , reserving `` moderate '' for dots upon or close to the mean .
there the middle one of the three curves denotes `` mean skeletal age '' for the maturity series boys and girls .
thus , a child's skeletal age `` dots '' may be classified as `` advanced '' when they appear above the middle curve , `` moderate '' when they appear immediately above or below the middle curve , and `` delayed '' when they appear below the lower curve .
first , the upper portion requires series of films for every child , consisting of those from hand , elbow , shoulder , knee , and foot .
second , the upper portion permits comparison of maturity levels of an equal number of growth centers from the long , short , and round bones of the five regions .
third , the upper portion deals with only two indicators of developmental level , onset and completion .
fourth , the two indicators are for the most part widely separated chronologically , with the extensive age gap occurring during childhood for all but one growth center .
onsets , completions , and skeletal ages ( hand ) of boy 34 and girl 2 may be directly compared and classified , using only those skeletal ages which appear immediately below the onset profile and the completion profile .
accordingly , maturity level ratings by means of the upper portion and lower portion of the chart , respectively , should be somewhat similar since skeletal age assessments are dependent upon onsets during infancy and upon completions during adolescence .
since a skeletal age rating can be made at any age during growth , from elbow , shoulder , knee , or foot as well as hand , it seems to be the method of choice when one wishes to study most aspects of skeletal developmental progress during childhood .
such an indicator , or indicators , are needed as means of recognizing specific periods of delay in skeletal developmental progress .
as one approach to doing this , figures 3 and 4 have be constructed from the mean ages and the individual onset and completion ages for boy 34 and girl 2 .
the data for boy 34 appear in figure 3 , and for girl 2 in figure 4 .
the `` dot '' on one end of each arrow indicates extent of difference in months between the child's onset age and the corresponding mean age for the growth center .
thus , the alignment of the `` dots '' and `` tips '' , respectively , indicate individual variability of the 21 growth centers of each child with respect to the mean values for these boys and girls .
when the `` dot '' and `` tip '' coincide , the classification used in this paper is `` same schedule '' .
the difference between the sequence of onset of ossification for the sexes governs the numbering sequence in figures 3 and 4 .
for example , arrow 17 in figure 3 portrays the proximal radial epiphysis for boy 34 , whereas the same epiphysis for girl 2 is portrayed by arrow 18 in figure 4 .
thus , the span of its ossification was shortened and the center's ability to `` catch up '' in ossification is demonstrated .
obviously , the slowing for her may have occurred at any point between onset and completion .
length of the shaft of these arrows may be evaluated according to the standard deviation values for each center in table 1 .
figures 5 and 6 are examples of our method of analyzing the results for each growth center .
the principles used in making each arrow for figures 3 and 4 were applied to the construction of figures 5 and 6 as well as all figures in the appendix .
its completion thus becomes one of the convenient maturity indicators to include in studies of growth , dietary patterns , and health during adolescence .
at the top of figure 5 , for example , the onset range and completion range lines for the chosen growth center have been drawn for girls according to their mean and standard deviation values in table 1 .
the growth center depicted here , in the distal phalanx of the second finger , is listed as the fifth of those in the seven short bones .
the correlation ( table 2 ) between onset age and completion age was -.50 , and that between onset age and span was -.10 .
accordingly , girls 31 , 29 , 33 , 21 , 26 , 13 , 3 , 4 , 14 , 32 , 24 , 25 , 34 , 23 , 6 , 15 , 22 , and 16 may be said to have the `` same schedule '' at onset and completion .
accordingly , if epiphyseal-diaphyseal fusion occurs in this phalanx near menarche , early and late menarches might have been forecast rather precisely at the time of onset of ossification for the 18 girls with `` same schedule '' .
it is of interest that her menarche was somewhat later than the average for the girls in this group .
boys 32 , 23 , 31 , 17 , 30 , 19 , and 24 had `` same schedule '' at onset and completion ; ;
boy 34 , like girl 2 , did not have `` same schedule '' ; ;
the `` dot '' on his arrow indicates early onset and the `` tip '' indicates relatively later completion .
interestingly enough , the effect of the digitalis glycosides is inhibited by a high concentration of potassium in the incubation medium and is enhanced by the absence of potassium ( wolff , 1960 ) .
organification of iodine
however , the formation of organically bound iodine , mainly mono-iodotyrosine , can be accomplished in cell-free systems .
taurog , potter and chaikoff , 1955 ; ;
serif and kirkwood , 1958 ; ;
this iodoprotein does not appear to be the same as what is normally present in the thyroid , and there is no evidence so far that thyroglobulin can be iodinated in vitro by cell-free systems .
if tyrosine and a system generating hydrogen peroxide are added to a cell-free homogenate of the thyroid , large quantities of free mono-iodotyrosine can be formed ( alexander , 1959 ) .
on chemical grounds it seems most likely that iodide is first converted to af and then to af as the active iodinating species .
iodination of tyrosine , however , is not enough for the synthesis of hormone .
the mechanism of this coupling has been studied in some detail with non-enzymatic systems in vitro and can be simulated by certain di-iodotyrosine analogues ( pitt-rivers and james , 1958 ) .
the chemical nature of the iodocompounds is discussed below ( pp. 76 et seq. ) .
thyroglobulin synthesis
its synthesis has not been demonstrated in cell-free systems , nor has its synthesis by systems with intact thyroid cells in vitro been unequivocally proven .
similar findings have been noted in a patient with congenital absence of the organification enzymes , whose thyroid tissue could only concentrate iodide .
d .
since the circulating thyroid hormones are the amino acids thyroxine and tri-iodothyronine ( cf. section c ) , it is clear that some mechanism must exist in the thyroid gland for their release from proteins before secretion .
one of the proteases has ph optimum of about 3.7 and another of about 5.7 ( mcquillan , stanley and trikojus , 1954 ; ;
the finding that the concentration of one of these proteases is increased in thyroid glands from tsh-treated animals suggests that this protease may be active in vivo .
a study of their activity on thyroglobulin has shown that thyroxine is not preferentially released and that the degradation proceeds stepwise with the formation of macromolecular intermediates ( alpers , petermann and rall , 1956 ) .
a microsomal de-iodinase with a ph optimum of around 8 , and requiring reduced triphosphopyridine nucleotide for activity , has been identified in the thyroid ( stanbury , 1957 ) .
it is assumed that the iodine released from the iodotyrosines remains in the iodide pool of the thyroid , where it is oxidised and re-incorporated into thyroglobulin .
it has been shown that thyroglobulin binds thyroxine , but the binding does not appear to be particularly strong .
e .
antithyroid drugs are of two general types .
this ion inhibits thyroid hormone synthesis by interfering with iodide concentration in the thyroid .
the other group of antithyroid agents or drugs is typified by thiouracil .
the mechanism of action of these drugs has not been completely worked out , but certain of them appear to act by reducing the oxidised form of iodine before it can iodinate thyroglobulin ( astwood , 1954 ) .
any of the antithyroid drugs , of either type , if given in large enough doses for a long period of time will cause goitre , owing to inhibition of thyroid hormone synthesis , with production of hypothyroidism .
the effect of drugs that act on the iodide-concentrating mechanism can be counteracted by addition of relatively large amounts of iodine to the diet .
besides those of the thiouracil and resorcinol types , certain antithyroid drugs have been found in naturally occurring foods .
it is presumed to occur in other members of the brassica family .
there it seems that the goitrogen ingested by dairy animals is itself inactive but is converted in the animal to an active goitrogen , which is then secreted in the milk .
dietary influences
in the experimental animal and in man gross deficiency in dietary iodine causes thyroid hyperplasia , hypertrophy and increased thyroid activity ( money , rall and rawson , 1952 ; ;
in man the normal level of iodine in the diet and the level necessary to prevent development of goitre is about 100 **ymg per day .
further , the gland is able to re-use a larger fraction of the thyroid hormone de-iodinated peripherally .
this appears to result from both a reduced amount of the iodine substrate and a more rapid secretion of newly iodinated thyroglobulin .
similar results might be expected from the influence of drugs or pathological conditions that limit iodide trapping , or organification , or accelerate thyroglobulin proteolysis .
the thyroid-stimulating hormone
the hormone has also been called thyrotrophin or thyrotrophic hormone .
here we shall restrict discussion to those methods that appear sufficiently sensitive and precise for determining the concentration of tsh in blood .
1 .
as long ago as 1851 it was pointed out by niepce ( 1851 ) that there is a connection between the pituitary and the thyroid .
the first attempts to isolate tsh came a decade later , when janssen and loeser ( 1931 ) used trichloroacetic acid to separate the soluble tsh from insoluble impurities .
albert ( 1949 ) has concluded that the most active preparations of tsh made during this period , from 1931 to 1945 , were probably about 100 to 300 times as potent as the starting material .
developments up to about 1957 have been discussed by sonenberg ( 1958 ) .
pierce , carsten and wynston , 1960 ) .
two problems present themselves in considering any hormone in blood .
second , what is its concentration in normal circumstances and in what circumstances will this concentration depart from the normal level and in which direction ? ?
the importance of knowing in what chemical forms the hormone may exist is accentuated by the recent observation that there exists an abnormally long-acting tsh in blood drawn from many thyrotoxic patients ( adams , 1958 ) .
in evaluating data on the concentration of tsh in blood , one must examine critically the bio-assay methods used to obtain them .
we should like to re-emphasise the importance of stating results solely in terms of international units of tsh activity and of avoiding the re-introduction of biological units .
a .
the international unit ( u. ) , adopted to make possible the comparison of results from different laboratories ( mussett and perry , 1955 ) , has been defined as the amount of activity present in 13.5 mg of the international standard preparation .
introduction
although biopsies have shown structural changes in some of the reported cases of steroid-induced weakness , this case provides the only example known to us in which necropsy afforded the opportunity for extensive study of multiple muscle groups .
report of case
in 1953 the patient developed an unexplained anemia for which 15 blood transfusions were given over a period of 4 years .
no additional transfusions were necessary after the institution of prednisone in july , 1957 , in an initial dose of 40 mg. daily with gradual tapering to 10 mg. daily .
in february , 1958 , the patient suffered a myocardial infarction complicated by pulmonary edema .
the hemoglobin was 11.6 gm. .
later , chlorothiazide and salt restriction became necessary to control the edema of chronic congestive failure .
in september , 1958 , the patient developed generalized weakness and fatigue which was concurrent with exacerbation of his anemia ; ;
in an attempt to reverse the downhill trend by stimulating the bone marrow and controlling any hemolytic component , triamcinolone , 16 mg. daily , was begun on sept. 26 , 1958 , and continued until feb. 18 , 1959 .
by nov. 8 , 1958 , weakness , specifically involving the pelvic and thigh musculature , was pronounced , and a common complaint was `` difficulty in stepping up on to curbs '' .
serum potassium at this time was 3.8 meq. per liter , and the hemoglobin was 13.9 gm. by dec. 1 , 1958 , the weakness in the pelvic and quadriceps muscle groups was appreciably worse , and it became difficult for the patient to rise unaided from a sitting or reclining position .
chlorothiazide was omitted for a 2-week period , but there was no change in the muscle weakness .
no fasciculations or sensory defects were found .
thyroid function tests yielded normal results .
a schilling test demonstrated normal absorption of vitamin af .
serial serum potassium levels remained normal ; ;
the clinical impression at this time was either muscular dystrophy or polymyositis .
from march 3 to may 1 , 1949 , the patient was maintained on dexamethasone , 3 to 6 mg. daily .
muscle weakness did not improve , and the patient needed first a cane , then crutches .
repeated attempts to withdraw steroids entirely were unsuccessful because increased muscle weakness resulted , as well as fever , malaise , anorexia , anxiety , and an exacerbation of the anemia .
severe back pain in june , 1959 , prompted a third hospital admission .
a high-protein diet , calcium lactate supplements , and norethandrolone failed to change the skeletal complaint or the severe muscle weakness .
x-ray films of the vertebral column showed progression of the demineralization .
findings at necropsy
there were bilateral pterygia and arcus senilis , and the mouth was edentulous .
the coronary arteries were sclerotic and diffusely narrowed throughout their courses , and the right coronary artery was virtually occluded by a yellow atheromatous plaque 1.5 cm. distal to its origin .
the valves were normal except for thin yellow plaques on the inferior surface of the mitral leaflets .
in addition , other sections contained focal areas of recent myocardial necrosis that were infiltrated with neutrophils .
the intima of the larger coronary arteries was thickened by fibrous tissue containing fusiform clefts and mononuclear cells .
in particular , the orifices of the right renal and celiac arteries were virtually occluded , and both calcified common iliac arteries were completely occluded .
on the surfaces of both lungs there were emphysematous blebs measuring up to 3 cm. in diameter .
microscopically , there was emphysema , fibrosis , and vascular congestion .
the firm red spleen weighed 410 gm. , and its surface was mottled by discrete , small patches of white material .
some of the sinusoids contained large numbers of nucleated red cells , and cells of the granulocytic series were found in small numbers .
the liver weighed 2,090 gm. , was brown in color , and the cut surface was mottled by irregular pale areas .
some liver cord cells contained vacuolated cytoplasm , while others had small amounts of brown hemosiderin pigment .
the mucosa of the stomach was atrophic and irregularly blackened over a 14 cm. area .
the small intestine and colon contained approximately 300 cc. of foul-smelling , sanguineous material , and the mucosa throughout was hyperemic and mottled green-brown .
microscopically , the mucosa of the stomach showed extensive cytolysis and contained large numbers of gram-negative bacterial rods .
the mucosa of the jejunum and ileum showed similar changes , and in some areas the submucosa was edematous and contained considerable numbers of neutrophils .
a section of the colon revealed intense hyperemia and extensive focal ulcerations of the mucosa , associated with much fibrin and many neutrophils .
the kidneys were pale and weighed right , 110 gm. , and left , 230 gm. .
on the surface of the right kidney there were also 2 yellow , firm , friable raised areas measuring up to 2 cm. in diameter .
occasional tubules contained hyaline casts admixed with neutrophils .
these changes were more marked in the atrophic right kidney than in the left .
the bone of the vertebral bodies , ribs , and sternum was soft and was easily compressed .
microscopically , there were many areas of hypercellularity alternating with areas of hypocellularity .
there was no evidence of fibrosis .
microscopic studies of the gastrocnemius , pectoralis major , transversus abdominis , biceps brachii , and diaphragm showed atrophy as well as varying degrees of injury ranging from swelling and vacuolization to focal necrosis of the muscle fibers .
in the gastrocnemius and biceps there were many swollen and homogeneous necrotic fibers such as that shown in figure 2 .
the necrosis often involved only a portion of the length of a given fiber , and usually the immediately adjacent fibers were normal .
inflammatory cells were strikingly absent .
these were increased both in number and in size , contained prominent nucleoli , and were distributed throughout the fiber ( figs. 2 - 5 ) .
the nuclei of these fibers , as is shown in figures 3 and 4 , showed remarkable proliferation and were closely approximated , forming a chainlike structure at either the center or the periphery of the fiber .
at times , clumps of 10 to 15 closely-packed nuclei were also observed .
these were thought to represent regenerating fibers .
in all of the sections examined , the arterioles and small arteries were essentially normal .
in attempting to improve specificity of staining , the fluorescein-labeled antisera used in both direct and indirect methods were treated in one of several ways : ( 1 ) they were passed through dowex-2-chloride twice and treated with acetone insoluble powders ( coons , 1958 ) prepared from mouse liver or from healthy sweet clover stems or crown gall tissue produced by agrobacterium tumefaciens ( e. f. smith & townsend ) on sweet clover stems .
the proteins were extracted with 3 volumes of af in af to give a nearly neutral extract and precipitated by 80% saturation with af .
( 3 ) in other experiments the indirect conjugate was treated with 3 volumes of ethyl acetate as recommended by dineen and ade ( 1957 ) .
preparation of frozen sections
root and stem tumors from sweet clover plants infected with wtv were quick-frozen in liquid nitrogen , embedded in ice , and cut at 3 - 6 **ym in a cryostat maintained at -16-degrees to -20-degrees .
the latter adhesive was found to be much more satisfactory .
until used they were stored for as long as 2 weeks .
indirect method .
some of them were then covered with a drop of af in a moist chamber at 24-degrees for 30 - 40 minutes .
sections were then washed with pbs for 15 - 30 minutes .
after blotting out most of the liquid around the sections , the latter were mounted in buffered glycerine ( 7 parts glycerine to 3 parts of pbs ) .
after drying the sections under the fan , fixing in acetone , and drying at 37-degrees as in the indirect method , the sections were treated with conjugated af or af ( undiluted unless mentioned otherwise ) for 5 - 30 minutes .
the sections were then washed with pbs for 15 - 30 minutes and mounted in buffered glycerine .
stained or unstained sections were examined under dark field illumination in a zeiss fluorescence microscope equipped with a mercury vapor lamp ( osram hbo 200 ) .
in the eyepiece a wratten 2 b filter was used to filter off residual ultra-violet light .
results
indirect method .
the intermediate sera were also similarly absorbed with tissue powder .
such sections showed bright yellow-green specific fluorescence in the cells of the pseudophloem tissue ( lee and black , 1955 ) .
unstained sections mounted in buffered glycerine or sections treated only with ns or af did not show such green fluorescence .
however , the nonspecific staining by the af in tumor sections was considered bright enough to be confused with the staining of small amounts of wtv antigen .
treatment of all the sera with sweet clover proteins greatly reduced nonspecific fluorescence , especially when the treated conjugate was diluted to 1 : 2 with 0.85% saline .
rinsing the sections with pbs before layering the intermediate sera did not improve the staining reaction .
the only treatment by which nonspecific staining could be satisfactorily removed was by passing the conjugate through a deae-cellulose column .
in the latter cases an additional treatment of the deae-cellulose-treated af with 50 mg of sweet clover stem tissue powder further improved the specificity .
with this purified conjugate the best staining procedure consisted of treating the sections with 1 : 10 dilution of af for 30 minutes , washing with pbs for 15 minutes , staining with af for 30 minutes , and washing with pbs for 15 minutes .
direct method .
this conjugate was passed twice through dowex-2-chloride and treated with various tissue powders in the same manner as described for the indirect method .
in later experiments , af and af were prepared by conjugating 8 mg of fitc per gram of globulin .
nonspecific staining could be satisfactorily eliminated by passing these conjugates through a deae-cellulose column as described for af .
the specificity of staining with af was established as follows : af specifically stained tumor sections but not sections of healthy sweet clover stems or of crown gall tumor tissue from sweet clover .
after passing af through deae-cellulose , the titer of antibodies to wtv in the specific fraction was 1 : 4 of the titer before such passage ( precipitin ring tests by r. f. whitcomb ) ; ;
this indicates that increase in specificity of af after passing it through deae-cellulose was not merely due to dilution .
this was chiefly because of the bluish white autofluorescence from the cells .
distribution of virus antigen
the virus antigen was concentrated in the pseudophloem tissue .
within the pseudophloem cells the distribution of wtv antigen was irregular in the cytoplasm .
these areas are thought to represent the nuclei .
in all cases studied tissues of the stem on which the tumor had developed did not contain detectable amounts of wtv antigen .
in both the direct and indirect methods of staining , the conjugates had nonspecifically staining fractions .
in the direct method , af , not further treated , stained certain tissues of healthy sweet clover stems nonspecifically and wtv tumor sections were similarly stained by comparable af .
treatment of the conjugates with ethyl acetate , and the conjugates ( which had been passed through dowex-2-chloride ) with mouse liver powder , sweet clover crown gall tissue powder , or healthy sweet clover proteins did not satisfactorily remove nonspecifically staining substances in the conjugates .
schramm and rottger ( 1959 ) did not report any such nonspecific staining of plant tissues with fluorescein isocyanate-labeled antiserum to tobacco mosaic virus .
in our work the best procedure for removing substances causing nonspecific staining in order to obtain specific conjugates was to pass the conjugates through a deae-cellulose column and in some cases to absorb the first and second milliliter fractions with sweet clover tissue powder .
a study of the distribution of wtv antigen within the pseudophloem cells indicates that it is irregularly distributed in the cytoplasm .
brakke et al , 1954 ) .
since emotional reactions in the higher vertebrates depend on individual experience and are aroused in man , in addition , by complex symbols , one would expect that the hypothalamus could be excited from the cortex .
moreover , the responsiveness of the hypothalamus to nociceptive stimulation is greatly increased under these conditions .
a previously extinguished conditioned reaction was restored in monkey a and was associated with typical signs of emotional excitement including sympathetic discharges .
in addition , the neocortical-hypothalamic relations play a great role in primates , as mirsky's interesting experiment on the `` communication of affect '' demonstrates .
maclean stressed correctly the importance of the visceral brain for preservation of the individual and the species , as evidenced by the influence of the limbic brain ( including the hypothalamus ) on emotions related to fight and flight and also on sexual functions .
previous experiences are obviously of great importance for the qualitative and quantitative emotional response .
13 .
after this brief discussion of neo- , paleocortical , and cortico-hypothalamic relations , let us return once more to the problem of hypothalamic balance and its physiological and pathological significance .
thus cortico-fugal discharges induced by topical application of strychnine to a minute area in the neocortex summate with spikes present in the hypothalamus and cause increased convulsive discharges .
apparently , a positive feedback exists between the posterior hypothalamus and the cerebral cortex .
obviously , a vicious cycle develops .
it is believed that drug therapy and electroshock involve the former and psychotherapy the latter mechanism .
thus , a low intensity of hypothalamic-cortical discharges prevails in sleep and a high one during wakefulness , resulting in synchronous eeg potentials in the former and asynchrony in the latter condition .
with the dominance of the sympathetic division of the hypothalamus , the opposite changes occur .
similar effects can be induced reflexly via the baroreceptor reflexes in man and animals .
although no drugs act exclusively on the hypothalamus or a part of it , there is sufficient specificity to distinguish drugs which shift the hypothalamic balance to the sympathetic side from those which produce a parasympathetic dominance .
specific differences exist in the action of different drugs belonging to the same group as , for instance , between reserpine and chlorpromazine .
the emotional states produced by drugs influence the cortical potentials in a characteristic manner ; ;
the shock therapies act likewise on the hypothalamic balance .
they shift the hypothalamic balance to the sympathetic side .
some investigators have found a parallelism between remissions and return of the sympathetic reactivity of the hypothalamus to the normal level as indicated by the mecholyl test and , conversely , between clinical impairment and increasing deviation of this test from the norm .
the mecholyl and noradrenalin tests applied with certain precautions are reliable indicators of this central autonomic balance , but for the sake of correlating autonomic and clinical states , and of studying the effect of certain therapeutic procedures on central autonomic reactions , additional tests seem to be desirable .
a change in the balance to the parasympathetic side leads in the normal individual to sleep or , in special circumstances , to cardiovascular collapse or nausea and vomiting .
the fundamental differences between physiological and pathological states of parasympathetic ( and also of sympathetic ) dominance remain to be elucidated .
a state of parasympathetic `` tuning '' of the hypothalamus induced experimentally causes not only an increase in the parsympathetic reactivity of this structure to direct and reflexly induced stimuli , but leads also to an autonomic reversal : a stimulus acting sympathetically under control conditions elicits in this state of tuning a parasympathetic response ! !
if , for instance , such a change is produced by one or a few insulin comas or electroshocks , previously inhibited conditioned reactions reappear .
in other studies , loss of differentiation in previously established conditioned reflexes resulted from repeated convulsive ( metrazol ) treatments , suggesting a fundamental disturbance in the balance between excitatory and inhibitory cerebral processes .
( 2 ) drugs altering the hypothalamic balance alter conditioned reactions ; ;
these are few and seemingly disjointed data , but they illustrate the important fact that fundamental alterations in conditioned reactions occur in a variety of states in which the hypothalamic balance has been altered by physiological experimentation , pharmacological action , or clinical processes .
on the physiological basis of some form of psychotherapy
if this is the case , one would expect that not only the various procedures just mentioned which alter the hypothalamic balance would influence emotional state and behavior but that emotion itself would act likewise .
this phenomenon raises the question whether the guidance of the emotions for therapeutic ends may not have an even wider application in the area of the neuroses .
wolpe's experiments and therapeutic work lie in this area .
an important observation of pavlov served as a guide post to achieve such a reversibility by physiological means .
a mild electrical shock served as a conditioned stimulus and was followed by feeding .
even when the intensity of the shocks was increased gradually , it failed to evoke any signs of pain .
appropriate experiments showed that this is , indeed , possible .
he took advantage of the antagonism between aggressive assertiveness and anxiety and found a relatively rapid disappearance of anxiety when the former attitude was established .
the feeding-pain antagonism seems to be based on this reciprocal relation between the tropho- and ergotropic systems .
although in both emotions sympathetic symptoms are present , different autonomic-somatic patterns underlie aggression and anxiety , respectively , as indicated by the rate of the excretion of the catecholamines , the state of the muscle tone , and the mecholyl test .
15 .
in our attempt to interpret the emotions in their physiological and pathological range , we emphasized the importance of the degree of activity of the parasympathetic and sympathetic divisions of the hypothalamic system and their influence on the inhibitory and excitatory systems , respectively .
although we are still far from a complete understanding of these problems , as a first approximation , it is suggested that alterations in the hypothalamic balance with consequent changes in the hypothalamic-cortical discharges account for major changes in behavior seen in various moods and states of emotions in man and beast under physiological circumstances , in experimental and clinical neurosis , and as the result of psychopharmacological agents .
6.4 .
we are trying to study a linear operator t on the finite-dimensional space v , by decomposing t into a direct sum of operators which are in some sense elementary .
what can we do with the general t ? ?
first , t may not have a single characteristic value ; ;
second , even if the characteristic polynomial factors completely over f into a product of polynomials of degree 1 , there may not be enough characteristic vectors for t to span the space v .
the second situation is illustrated by the operator t on af ( f any field ) represented in the standard basis by af .
thus t is not diagonalizable .
on the other hand , the null space of af and the null space of af together span v , the former being the subspace spanned by af and the latter the subspace spanned by af and af .
if ( remember this is an assumption ) the minimal polynomial for t decomposes af where af are distinct elements of f , then we shall show that the space v is the direct sum of the null spaces of af .
the theorem which we prove is more general than what we have described , since it works with the primary decomposition of the minimal polynomial , whether or not the primes which enter are all of first degree .
theorem 12 .
let t be a linear operator on the finite-dimensional vector space v over the field f .
let af be the null space of af .
( b ) each af is invariant under t ; ;
proof .
if the direct-sum decomposition ( a ) is valid , how can we get hold of the projections af associated with the decomposition ? ?
we shall find a polynomial af such that af is the identity on af and is zero on the other af , and so that af , etc. .
since af are distinct prime polynomials , the polynomials af are relatively prime ( theorem 8 , chapter 4 ) .
note also that if af , then af is divisible by the polynomial p , because af contains each af as a factor .
let af .
thus the af are projections which correspond to some direct-sum decomposition of the space v .
it is clear that each vector in the range of af is in af for if **ya is in the range of af , then af and so af because af is divisible by the minimal polynomial p .
if af , then af is divisible by af and so af , i.e. , af .
this completes the proof of statement ( a ) .
if af is the operator induced on af by t , then evidently af , because by definition af is 0 on the subspace af .
conversely , let g be any polynomial such that af .
thus af is divisible by the minimal polynomial p of t , i.e. , af divides af .
hence the minimal polynomial for af is af .
if af are the projections associated with the primary decomposition of t , then each af is a polynomial in t , and accordingly if a linear operator u commutes with t then u commutes with each of the af , i.e. , each subspace af is invariant under u .
now the range of af is the null space af of af .
by theorem 10 , d is a diagonalizable operator which we shall call the diagonalizable part of t .
now af af so af .
when af for each i , we shall have af , because the operator af will then be 0 on the range of af .
let n be a linear operator on the vector space v .
theorem 13 .
suppose that the minimal polynomial for t decomposes over f into a product of linear polynomials .
the diagonalizable operator d and the nilpotent operator n are uniquely determined by ( a ) and ( b ) and each of them is a polynomial in t .
we have just observed that we can write af where d is diagonalizable and n is nilpotent , and where d and n not only commute but are polynomials in t .
we shall prove that af .
thus d' and n' commute with any polynomial in t ; ;
now we have af or af and all four of these operators commute with one another .
since n and n' are both nilpotent and they commute , the operator af is nilpotent ; ;
( actually , a nilpotent operator on an n-dimensional space must have its t power 0 ; ;
it then follows that af is large enough , but this is not obvious from the above expression .
such an operator is obviously the zero operator ; ;
but then since the operator is diagonalizable , the minimal polynomial cannot have a repeated root ; ;
thus we see that af and af .
let v be a finite-dimensional vector space over an algebraically closed field f , e.g. , the field of complex numbers .
these operators d and n are unique and each is a polynomial in t .
for vector spaces over non-algebraically closed fields , we still need to find some substitute for characteristic values and vectors .
in concluding this section , we should like to give an example which illustrates some of the ideas of the primary decomposition theorem .
example 11 .
if t is a linear operator on an arbitrary vector space and if there is a monic polynomial p such that af , then parts ( a ) and ( b ) of theorem 12 are valid for t with the proof which we gave .
if af denotes the space of n times continuously differentiable functions , then the space v of solutions of this differential equation is a subspace of af .
let us now regard d as a linear operator on the subspace v .
if we are discussing differentiable complex-valued functions , then af and v are complex vector spaces , and af may be any complex numbers .
if af is the null space of af , then theorem 12 says that af .
thus , the study of the solutions to the equation af is reduced to the study of the space of solutions of a differential equation of the form af .
to describe the space of solutions to af , one must know something about differential equations ; ;
however , one does not need to know very much .
that is , af , etc. .
a function g such that af , i.e. , af , must be a polynomial function of degree af or less : af .
accordingly , the ' functions ' af span the space of solutions of af .
7-1 .
some experiments are composed of repetitions of independent trials , each with two possible outcomes .
we devote a chapter to the binomial distribution not only because it is a mathematical model for an enormous variety of real life phenomena , but also because it has important properties that recur in many other probability models .
marksmanship example .
in repeated sets of five shots his numbers of bull's-eyes vary .
inheritance in mice .
what probabilities should be attached to these possible outcomes ? ?
when three dice are tossed repeatedly , what is the probability that the number of aces is 0 ( or 1 , or 2 , or 3 ) ? ?
more generally , suppose that an experiment consists of a number of independent trials , that each trial results in either a `` success '' or a `` non-success '' ( `` failure '' ) , and that the probability of success remains constant from trial to trial .
in general , any outcome we choose may be labeled `` success '' .
in chapters 3 and 4 we answered questions like those in the examples , usually by counting points in a sample space .
before deriving this formula , we explain what we mean by `` problems of this kind '' .
in the marksmanship example , a trial consists of `` one round shot at a target '' with outcome either one bull's-eye ( success ) or none ( failure ) .
if three dice are tossed , a trial is one toss of one die and the experiment is composed of three trials .
mathematically , we shall not distinguish the experiment of three dice tossed once from that of one die tossed three times .
example 1 .
ten students act as managers for a high-school football team , and of these managers a proportion p are licensed drivers .
on three fridays the coach has needed a driver .
exactly 2 times ? ?
0 times ? ?
note that there are 3 trials of interest .
the 2 possible outcomes on each trial are `` driver '' or `` nondriver '' .
the managers stay the same , so that af is the same for all weeks .
for an experiment to qualify as a binomial experiment , it must have four properties : ( 1 ) there must be a fixed number of trials , ( 2 ) each trial must result in a `` success '' or a `` failure '' ( a binomial trial ) , ( 3 ) all trials must have identical probabilities of success , ( 4 ) the trials must be independent of each other .
we also give , for each property , an example where the property is absent .
1 .
for the marksman , we study sets of five shots ( af ) ; ;
and for the aces , we toss three dice ( af ) .
toss a die until an ace appears .
2 .
each of the n trials is either a success or a failure .
these words are more expressive than labels like `` a '' and `` not-a '' .
the word `` binomial '' means `` of two names '' or `` of two terms '' , and both usages apply in our work : the first to the names of the two outcomes of a binomial trial , and the second to the terms p and af that represent the probabilities of `` success '' and `` failure '' .
experiment without the two-class property .
we can escape from such a difficulty by ruling out the animal as not constituting a trial , but such a solution is not always satisfactory .
all trials have identical probabilities of success .
the marksman has some probability p , perhaps 0.1 , of making a bull's-eye .
experiment where p is not constant .
4 .
strictly speaking , this means that the probability for each possible outcome of the experiment can be computed by multiplying together the probabilities of the possible outcomes of the single binomial trials .
experimentally , we expect independence when the trials have nothing to do with one another .
a family of five plans to go together either to the beach or to the mountains , and a coin is tossed to decide .
when this experiment is viewed as composed of five binomial trials , one for each member of the family , the outcomes of the trials are obviously not independent .
the following is a less extreme example of dependence .
each person votes for one of a pair of pictures to receive a popular prize .
an experiment consists of the voting of one couple , or two trials .
table 7-1 illustrates the point .
therefore , under independent voting , af or 0.36 of the couples would cast two votes for picture a , and af or 0.16 would cast two votes for picture b .
but table 7-1 shows that af or 0.70 agree , too many for independent voting .
we want to study the probability function of this random variable .
a binomial experiment can produce random variables other than the number of successes .
thus we do not score the number of bull's-eyes , and the random variable is not the number of successes .
obviously , very slight changes in p do not change the probabilities much , and a slight lack of independence may not make an appreciable difference .
) on the other hand , even when the binomial model does not describe well the physical phenomenon being studied , the binomial model may still be used as a baseline for comparative purposes ; ;
to summarize :
the outcome of the experiment is x successes .
we shall find a formula for the probability of exactly x successes for given values of p and n .
the choice of p and n determines the binomial distribution uniquely , and different choices always produce different distributions ( except when af ; ;
the set of all binomial distributions is called the family of binomial distributions , but in general discussions this expression is often shortened to `` the binomial distribution '' , or even `` the binomial '' when the context is clear .
random variables .
therefore each binomial trial can be thought of as producing a value of a random variable associated with that trial and taking the values 0 and 1 , with probabilities q and p respectively .
example 2 .
the numbers of successes on the five individual shots are , then , 0 , 0 , 1 , 0 , 1 .
their sum is x , the total number of successes , which in this experiment has the value af .
these are real analytic periodic functions with period t .
this theorem is similar to the theorem of kakutani that there exists a circumscribing cube around any closed , bounded convex set in af .
here , for the case of squares inscribed in plane curves , we remove the restriction to convexity and give certain other results .
indeed , the spiral af , with the two endpoints connected by a straight line possesses only one inscribed square .
on c , from the point p at af to the point q at af , we construct the chord , and upon the chord as a side erect a square in such a way that as s approaches zero the square is inside c .
as s approaches t the square will be outside c and therefore both af and af must cross c an odd number of times as s varies from zero to t .
suppose af crosses c when af .
for any such square the middle corner of these will be called the vertex of the square and the corner not on the curve will be called the diagonal point of the square .
to each paired vertex and diagonal point there corresponds a unique forward corner point , i.e. , the corner on c reached first by proceeding along c from the vertex in the direction of increasing t .
the set of intersections of af , the rotated curve , with the original curve c consists of just the set of forward corner points on c corresponding to the vertex at af , plus the vertex itself .
otherwise , being analytic , they would coincide at all points , which is impossible since they do not coincide near af .
for the vertex at af , these values will be denoted by af .
we consider now the graph of the function f{t} on af .
the graph , as a set , may have a finite number of components .
each point with abscissa t on the graph represents an intersection between c and af .
an ordinary point will be any point of intersection a such that in every neighborhood of a in the c-plane , af meets both the interior and the exterior of c .
this terminology will also be applied to the corresponding points in the aj .
lemma 1 .
proof .
with the vertex at af in the c-plane we assume that af is the parametric location on c of an ordinary intersection q between c and af .
we know that in the c-plane both c and af are analytic .
near q , both curves can be represented by analytic functions of u .
furthermore , one can find a neighborhood of q in which the difference function is monotone , for since it is analytic it can have only a finite number of extrema in any interval .
but af is just the curve af translated without rotation through a small arc , for af is always obtained by rotating c through exactly 90-degrees .
thus if e is sufficiently small , there can be only one intersection of c and af near q , for if there were more than one intersection for every e then the difference between c and af near q would not be a monotone function .
it is also seen that af , since the change from af to af is accomplished by a continuous translation .
we turn now to the set of tangent points on the graph .
the fact that there can not be any limit points of the set except in closed intervals follows from the argument used in lemma 1 , namely , that near any tangent point in the c-plane the curves c and af are analytic , and therefore the difference between them must be a monotone function in some neighborhood on either side of the tangent point .
lemma 2 .
proof .
a continuous change in t through an amount e results in a translation along an analytic arc of the curve af .
( b ) af moves away from c and does not intersect it at all for af ; ;
the first possibility results in a closed interval of tangent points in the f-plane , the end points of which fall into category ( b ) or ( c ) .
in the third category the function is double-valued in this interval .
again , the analyticity of the two curves guarantees that such intervals exist .
with the above results we can make the following remarks about the graph of f .
for it is clear that the total number of ordinary intersections of c and af must be even ( otherwise , starting in the interior of c , af could not finally return to the interior ) , and the center of rotation at t is the argument of the function , not a value .
definition .
lemma 3 .
proof
we suppose not .
suppose af is defined in the sub-interval af .
otherwise by lemma 1 the component would extend beyond these points .
thus the multiplicity of af for a given t must be an even number .
but this is a contradiction , for we know that the multiplicity of f{t} is odd for every t .
there must be an odd number of such components , which will be called complete components .
we must now show that on some component of the graph there exist two points for which the corresponding diagonal points in the c-plane are on opposite sides of c .
we erect a square with pq as a side and with free corners af and af adjacent to p and q respectively .
we have af , plus tangent points .
lemma 4 .
proof .
the functions f and b have exactly the same multiplicity at every argument t .
the roots of this equation are just the ordinates of the intersections of the graph of b with a straight line of unit slope through af in the b-plane ( the plane of the graph of b ) .
thus we obtain g{t} by introducing an oblique g{t}-axis in the aj .
in 1 we investigate a new series of line involutions in a projective space of three dimensions over the field of complex numbers .
then in 2 we show that any line involution with the properties that ( a ) it has no complex of invariant lines , and ( b ) its singular lines form a complex consisting exclusively of the lines which meet a twisted curve , is necessarily of the type discussed in 1 .
1 .
a general line l meets q in two points , af and af , through each of which passes a unique generator of the regulus , af , whose lines are simple secants of aj .
the line af is the image of l .
we observe first that no line , l , can meet its image except at one of its intersections with q .
moreover , from the definitive transformation of intercepts on the generators of af , it is clear that the only points of q at which a line can meet its image are the points of aj .
the invariant lines are the lines of the congruence of secants of **zg , since each of these meets q in two points which are invariant .
the class of the congruence is af , since an arbitrary plane meets **zg in k points .
there are various sets of exceptional lines , or lines whose images are not unique .
thus pencils of tangents to q are transformed into pencils of tangents .
for the lines of any plane , **yp , meeting q in a conic c , are transformed into the congruence of secants of the curve c' into which c is transformed in the point involution on q .
moreover , if af and af are two planes intersecting in a line l , tangent to q at a point p , the two free intersections of the image curves af and af must coincide at p' , the image of p , and at this point af and af must have a common tangent l' .
each generator , **yl , of af is also exceptional , for each is transformed into the entire congruence of secants of the curve into which that generator is transformed by the point involution on q .
the congruence of its secants is therefore of order af and class af .
in other words , these curves have only fixed intersections common to them all .
since two curves of symbol af on q intersect in af points , it follows that there are af lines of af which are tangent to aj .
a line through two of these points , af and af , will be transformed into the entire bilinear congruence having the tangents to **zg at af and af as directrices .
hence its image , c' , meets any line of af in af points .
hence c' is a af curve on q .
finally , the image of a general bundle of lines is a congruence whose order is the order of the congruence of invariant lines , namely af and whose class is the order of the image congruence of a general plane field of lines , namely af .
the preceding observations make it clear that there exist line involutions of all orders greater than 1 with no complex of invariant lines and with a complex of singular lines consisting exclusively of the lines which meet a twisted curve aj .
to do this we must first show that every line which meets **zg in a point p meets its image at p .
by ( 1 ) , the image of this pencil is a ruled surface of order af which is met by the plane of the pencil in a curve , c , of order af .
since c is rational , this correspondence has k coincidences , each of which implies a line of the pencil which meets its image .
to avoid this contradiction it is necessary that c be composite , with the secant of **zg and a curve of order af as components .
but if this is the case , then an arbitrary pencil of lines having a point , p , of **zg as vertex is transformed into a ruled surface of order af having af generators concurrent at p .
now consider the transformation of the lines of a bundle with vertex , p , on **zg which is effected by the involution as a whole .
moreover , in this involution there is a cone of invariant lines of order af , namely the cone of secants of **zg which pass through p .
the first possibility requires that there be a line through p which meets **zg in af points ; ;
in each case , lines of the bundles are transformed by involutions within the pencils they determine with the multiple secant .
in the second , the fixed elements are the lines which join the vertex , p , to the two intersections of **zg and the plane of the pencil which do not lie on the multiple secant .
observations similar to these can be made at each point of aj .
moreover , if af , no two of the multiple secants can intersect .
but if no two lines of the regulus of multiple secants of **zg can intersect , then the regulus must be quadratic , or in other words , **zg must be either a af or a af curve on a nonsingular quadric surface .
for any pencil in a plane containing a af-fold secant of **zg has an image regulus which meets the plane of the pencil in af lines , namely the images of the lines of the pencil which pass through the intersection of **zg and the multiple secant , plus an additional component to account for the intersections of the images of the general lines of the pencil .
this contradicts the preceding observations , and so , under the assumption of this paper , we must reject the possibility that **zg is a af curve on a quadric surface .
for each of these lines meets q in three points , namely two points on **zg and one point on one of the multiple secants .
if **ya is the multiple secant of **zg which passes through af and **yb is the simple secant of **zg which passes through af , and if af are the points in which **ya meets **zg , and if af is the image of af on the generator **yb , it follows that the image of the line af is af .
as the historic processes of modernization gradually gain momentum , their cohesion will be threatened by divisive forces , the gaps between rulers and subjects , town and country , will widen ; ;
old rulers may lose their nerve and their sense of direction .
feelings of a community of interest will have to be recreated -- in some of the new nations , indeed , they must be built for the first time -- on a new basis which looks toward the future and does not rely only on shared memories of the past .
the united states can help by communicating a genuine concern with the problems these countries face and a readiness to provide technical and other appropriate forms of assistance where possible .
at the same time , we should recognize that the obstacles to change and the lack of cohesion and stability which characterize these countries may make them particularly prone to diversions and external adventures of all sorts .
we should do what we can to discourage this conclusion , both by offering assistance for their domestic needs and by reacting firmly to irresponsible actions on the world scene .
as a nation , we feel an obligation to assist other countries in their development ; ;
transitional societies
the men in power are committed in principle to modernization , but economic and social changes are proceeding only erratically .
the society is likely to be characterized by having a fairly modernized urban sector and a relatively untouched rural sector , with very poor communications between the two .
most countries in this second category share the difficulty of having many of the structures of a modern political and social system without the modern standards of performance required to make them effective .
the colonial period has generally left people believing that government can , if it wishes , provide all manner of services for them -- and that with independence free men do not have to work to realize the benefits of modern life .
such is the mystique of planning that people expect that fulfillment of the plan will follow automatically upon its announcement .
and their members often equate a government career with security and status rather than with sacrifice , self-discipline , and competence .
we should spread the view that planning and national development are serious matters which call for effort as well as enthusiasm .
only within the framework of a mature relationship characterized by honest appraisals of performance can we provide telling assistance .
our technical assistance to these countries should place special emphasis on inducing the central governments to assume the role of advisor and guide which at an earlier stage foreign experts assumed in dealing with the central governments .
simultaneously we should be underlining the interrelationships of technical progress in various fields , showing how agricultural training can be introduced into education , how health affects labor productivity , how small business can benefit the rural farm community , and , above all , how progress in each field relates to national progress .
to achieve this goal of balanced development , communications between the central government and the local communities must be such that the needs and aspirations of the people themselves are effectively taken into account .
land reform is likely to be a pressing issue in many of these countries .
as an isolated policy , land reform is likely to be politically disruptive ; ;
it should also be recognized that the problem of rural tenancy cannot be solved by administrative decrees alone .
lastly , governmental and private planners will at this stage begin to see large capital requirements looming ahead .
actively modernizing societies
they must continue to satisfy basic capital needs ; ;
but these countries have made big strides toward developing the necessary human and social overhead capital ; ;
and they have begun to develop a capacity to deal realistically and simultaneously with all the major sectors of their economies .
several related tasks must be carried out if self-sustaining growth is to be achieved .
they must in their planning be able to count on at least tentative commitments of foreign capital assistance over periods of several years .
capital flows must be coordinated with national needs and planning .
thus , although the agenda of external assistance in the economic sphere are cumulative , and many of the policies suggested for nations in the earlier stages remain relevant , the basic purpose of american economic policy during the later stages of development should be to assure that movement into a stage of self-sustaining growth is not prevented by lack of foreign exchange .
for one thing , although considerable numbers of men have been trained , bureaucracies are still deficient in many respects ; ;
technical assistance in training middle- and upper-level management personnel is still needed in many cases .
this is the stage at which democratic developments must take place if the society is to become an open community of creative people .
another great danger is that the emerging middle class will feel itself increasingly alienated from the political leaders who still justify their dominance by reference to the struggle for independence or the early phase of nationalism .
particularly when based upon a single dominant party , governments may respond to such a situation by claiming a monopoly of understanding about the national interest .
american policy toward such societies should stress our sympathy for the emerging social and professional classes .
we have every obligation to take seriously their claims to being democratic and free countries ; ;
the time factor
with the exception of treaty-making , foreign relations were historically concerned for the most part with conditions of short or at least measurable duration .
american and free-world policies can marginally affect the pace of transition ; ;
it follows that any effective policy toward the underdeveloped countries must have a realistically long working horizon .
this condition affects not only the conception but also the legislative and financial support of foreign policy , especially in the context of economic aid .
some of the major functions of religion
as a complex it fits into the whole social organization and functions dominantly in every part of it .
with the diversity of religious viewpoints , there are differences of opinion as to the essential features of religion ; ;
nevertheless , for most of the population of heterogeneous advanced societies , though less for the less religious portion , religion does perform certain modal individual and social functions .
if the inner functions of religion are performed , the individual is a composed , ordered , motivated , and emotionally secure associate ; ;
he is better fitted to perform his social life among his fellows .
in the last analysis , religion is the means of inducing , formulating , expressing , enhancing , implementing , and perpetuating man's deepest experience -- the religious .
the instrumentalities follow .
the significant things in it , at the higher religious levels , are the inner emotional , mental , and spiritual occurrences that fill the pressing human needs of self-preservation , self-pacification , and self-completion .
related to this is the fact that most of the higher religions define for the individual his place in the universe and give him a feeling that he is relatively secure in an ordered , dependable universe .
he is a coordinate part of all of the mysterious energy and being and movement .
a number of religions also satisfy for many the need of being linked with the ultimate and eternal .
man has a second chance .
he has endless being .
religion can summate , epitomize , relate , and conserve all the highest ideals and values -- ethical , aesthetic , and religious -- of man formed in his culture .
the kind of religious experience that most moderns seek not only provides , clarifies , and relates human yearnings , values , ideals , and purposes ; ;
under the religious impulse , whether theistic or humanistic , men have joy in living ; ;
religion at its best is out in front , ever beckoning and leading on , and , as lippman put it , `` mobilizing all man's scattered energies in one triumphant sense of his own infinite importance '' .
it gives him aid , comfort , even solace , in meeting mundane life situations where his own unassisted practical knowledge and skill are felt by him to be inadequate .
he has to cope with frustration and other emotional disturbance and anomie .
religion usually also includes a principle of compensation , mainly in a promised perfect future state .
the tensions accompanying a repressive consciousness of wrongdoing or sinning or some tormenting secret are relieved for the less self-contained or self-sufficient by confession , repentance , and penance .
in providing for these inner individual functions , religion undertakes in behalf of individual peace of mind and well-being services for which there is no other institution .
the two have never been separable .
the value-system of a community or society is always correlated with , and to a degree dependent upon , a more or less shared system of religious beliefs and convictions .
even in the united states , with its freedom of religious belief and worship and its vast denominational differentiation , there is a general consensus regarding the basic christian values .
for example americans rally to christian values vis-a-vis those of atheistic communism .
even the non-church members -- the freewheelers , marginal religionists and so on -- have the values of christian civilization internalized in them .
for example , those regarding material objects and pragmatic ends .
for example , marriage as a sacrament , much law-breaking as sinful , occasionally the state as a divine instrument .
closely related to this function is the fact that the religious system provides a body of ultimate ends for the society , which are compatible with the supreme eternal ends .
for example , a plan that fulfills the will of god , which advances the kingdom of god , which involves social life as part of the grand design .
it gives social guidance and direction and makes for programs of social action .
in general , there is no society so secularized as to be completely without religiously inspired transcendental ends .
some of the oldest , most persistent , and most cohesive forms of social groupings have grown out of religion .
religion fosters group life in various ways .
without a system of values there can be no society .
it enables members of the society to operate as a system .
as he points out , a religious group cannot exist without a collective credo , and the more extensive the credo , the more unified and strong is the group .
the more extensive and firm the body of doctrine , the firmer the group .
the religion , in fact , is an expression of the unity of the group , small or large .
these are ways of jointly participating in significantly symbolized , standardized , and ordered religiously sanctified behavior .
durkheim noted long ago that religion as `` a unified system of beliefs and practices relative to sacred things unites into one single moral community all those who adhere to them '' .
this is brought out in the common religious ethos that prevails even in the denominationally diverse audiences at many secular semi-public and public occasions in the united states ; ;
the unifying effect of religion is also brought out in the fact that historically peoples have clung together as more or less cohesive cultural units , with religion as the dominant bond , even though spatially dispersed and not politically organized .
it might be pointed out that the integrating function of religion , for good or ill , has often supported or been identified with other groupings -- political , nationality , language , class , racial , sociability , even economic .
as such it acts as an anchor for the people .
it has thus been a significant factor in the conservation of social values , though also in some measure , an obstacle to the creation or diffusion of new ones .
as yinger has pointed out , the `` reliance on symbols , on tradition , on sacred writings , on the cultivation of emotional feelings of identity and harmony with sacred values , turns one to the past far more than to the future '' .
at the same time that religion exercises a conserving influence , it also energizes and motivates both individuals and groups .
the great ultimate ends of religion have served as magnificent beacon lights that lured people toward them with an almost irresistible force , mobilizing energies and inducing sacrifices ; ;
much effort has been expended in the sincere effort to apply the teaching and admonitions of religion .
religion provides the most attractive rewards , either in this world or the next , for those who not merely abide by its norms , but who engage in good works .
among primitive peoples the sanctions and dictates of religion were more binding than any of the other controls exercised by the group ; ;
religion has its own supernatural prescriptions that are at the same time codes of behavior for the here and now .
thus the lack of effective recognition of the responsibilities involved in caring for two babies showed signs of becoming a disabling problem .
soon mrs. b.'s fears threatened to burst into a full-blown panic concerning the welfare of the entire family .
clearly , this was a family in crisis .
her previous traumatic experiences flashed through her mind as if they had happened yesterday .
in the family's own words ( during the third of twelve visits ) , they had `` reached the crisis peak -- either the situation will give or we will break '' ! !
abreaction of her anxiety and guilt concerning the death of her parents , when linked up with her current feelings of anger and her fears of loss , abandonment , and annihilation , produced further relief of tension .
the father , accurately perceiving the child's needs , not only respected them as worthy of his attention , but immediately satisfied them by taking him on his lap along with the twins , saying , `` i have a big lap ; ;
simultaneously , a variety of environmental supports -- a calm but not too motherly homemaker , referral for temporary economic aid , intelligent use of nursing care , accompaniment to the well-baby clinic for medical advice on the twins' feeding problem -- combined to prevent further development of predictable pathological mechanisms .
as seen in the b. family , there must be an attempt to help the client develop conscious awareness of the problem , especially in the absence of a formal request for assistance .
the unhealthy use of denial in the initial reaction to a stress must be handled through the medium of a positive controlled transference .
while some regression is inevitable , it is discouraged rather than encouraged so that the transference does not follow the stages of planned regression associated with certain casework adaptations of the psychoanalytic model for insight therapy .
these needs usually concern the reduction of guilt and some relief of tension .
in this relationship-building stage the worker must communicate confidence in the client's ability to deal with the problem .
thus , the client receives enough ego support to engage in constructive efforts on his own behalf .
we are preventing or averting pathogenic phenomena such as undue regression , unhealthy suppression and repression , excessive use of denial , and crippling guilt turned against the self .
in steering the family toward ego-adaptive and away from maladaptive responses , the worker uses time-honored focused casework techniques of specific emotional support , clarification , and anticipatory guidance .
though there is obviously nothing new about these techniques , they do challenge the worker's skill to articulate them precisely on the spot and on the basis of quick and accurate diagnostic assessments .
in addition , in many cases , a variety of concrete social resources -- homemaker , day care , medical and financial aid -- must be reasonably available for the reality support needed to bolster the family in its individual and collective coping and integrative efforts .
while expensive in time and involving a great deal of adaptation on the part of the worker ( in terms of his willingness to leave the sanctity of his office and enter actively into the client's life ) , techniques of accompaniment were found to be of tremendous value when in the service of specific preventive objectives .
having outlined an approach to the theory and practice of preventive casework , we now address ourselves to our final question : what place should brief , crisis-oriented preventive casework occupy in our total spectrum of services ? ?
this problem is perhaps as old as social casework itself .
her conclusion has been borne out in the experience of many practitioners : `` short-contact interviewing is neither a truncated nor a telescoped experience but is of the same essential quality as the so-called intensive case work '' .
that we are experiencing an upsurge of interest in the many formulations and preventive adaptations of brief treatment in social casework is evident from even a small sampling of current literature .
according to a number of studies , the important predictors are the nature and management of the client's anxiety as well as the accessibility of the helping person .
of startling significance , too , is the assertion that it was possible to carry out this program with only a 6 percent attrition rate as compared with a rate of 59 percent reported for a comparable group of families who were receiving help in traditionally operated child guidance services .
similarities to the approach which i have described are evident in the prompt establishment of a helping relationship , quick appraisal of key issues , and the immediate mobilization of treatment plans as the essential dynamics in helping to further the ego's coping efforts in dealing with the interplay of inner and outer stresses .
in some programs , treatment is concentrated over a short period of time , while in others , after the initial contact is established , flexible spacing of interviews has been experimentally used with apparent success .
my aim in mentioning this factor obviously is not to give license to `` wild therapy '' but rather to encourage us to use the time-honored clinical casework skills we already possess , and to use them with greater confidence , precision , and professional pride .
woodward , for example , has emphasized the `` need for a broad spectrum of services , including very brief services in connection with critical situations '' .
moreover , the shortage of treatment resources and the chronically persistent shortage of mental health manpower force us to innovate additional refinements of preventive intervention techniques to make services more widely available -- and on a more effective basis to more people .
our literature is already replete with a fantastic number of suggestions for preventive agency programming ranging from the immediately practical to the globally utopian .
increased experimentation with multipurpose agencies , especially those that combine afresh the traditional functions of family and child welfare services , holds rich promise for the future .
sentiment .
one of the devices for tension management is preferential mating .
the relative geographical isolation of the brandywine population makes for a limited choice in mating .
the supportive relations can apparently be achieved in geographical and social isolation .
as loomis remarks , `` in the internal pattern the chief reason for interacting is to communicate liking , friendship , and love among those who stand in supporting relations to one another and corresponding negative sentiments to those who stand in antagonistic relations '' .
maintenance of the status quo might seem to be the appropriate goal or objective of this population today .
prior to world war 2 , there was a higher percentage of endogamous marriages than after world war 2 .
the norms , as elements , refer to `` all criteria for judging the character or conduct of both individual and group actions in any social system '' .
the elements and processes become evident in a study of mate selection in this population .
core - marginal marriages still belong in the category of permissive unions ; ;
status-roles .
power .
this would seem to vary from family to family , depending somewhat on the core or marginal `` status '' of that family .
ranking .
the large majority of the interviewees placed core families in the upper positions .
`` the standing or rank of an actor in a given social system is determined by the evaluation placed upon the actor and his acts in accordance with the norms and standards of the system '' .
to some extent the system can be considered a gemeinschaft in which `` social-role occupancies are determined by birth , by attributes such as sex or caste , which are biologically or socially immutable '' .
sanctions .
however , because of church laws , lately more stringently enforced , which forbid the marriage of cousins closely related consanguineously , a means of facilitating the goal of in-group relations may be that of recourse to illegitimate unions .
subsystems
within the larger social system are the structural and functional subsystems .
subgroups of various types , interconnected by relational norms .
roles of various types , within the larger system and within the subgroups 3 .
4 .
in the study of marriage patterns for this group , consanguinity produces the structural system -- a system of affinities -- which , in turn , maintains the system of consanguinity .
each family line can be considered a substructure .
additionally , the proscription of core - negro marriages for core families , discussed above , would seem to act as a regulative norm governing subgroups and roles .
however , it cannot be presumed , informal though the structure of the population seems , that there are not well-defined roles within the system .
it is hypothesized that fertility is a function of the social system when the population as a whole is considered and a function of the subsystems when the two-fold division of core families and marginal families is considered .
by means of geographical isolation and high fertility rates , inbreeding can be fostered and the pattern of isolation from the greater society maintained .
to maintain their intermediate position in the larger society , it is not only necessary that members of this population be `` visible '' , but that their numbers be great enough to be recognized as a separate , distinct grouping or system in society .
adaptation to the social and non-social environment through the economy has been met to a degree through a type of occupational segregation .
integration `` has to do with the inter-relation of parts '' .
the values placed by the brandywine population , upon maintaining a certain homogeneity , a certain separate racial identity , and therefore a certain separate social status , are important for the morale of the system .
in this respect it would seem that the greater the social distance between the brandywine population and the white and negro populations within the same general locality , the greater the possibility for higher morale and solidarity within the brandywine population .
in turn , higher fertility rates for this population provide a means of increasing the numerical quantity of the population , allowing for the possibility of greater stability and unity .
master processes
loomis considers six such processes in his paradigm .
communication
boundary maintenance
systemic linkage
socialization
social control
institutionalization though undoubtedly all six processes are operative within the whole social system and its subsystems , two processes that are of crucial importance to this study will be singled out for particular emphasis .
in discussing the process of communication , loomis defines it as `` the process by which information , decisions , and directives are transmitted among actors and the ways in which knowledge , opinions , and attitudes are formed , or modified by interaction '' .
intense interaction is easier where segregated living and occupational segregation mark off a group from the rest of the community , as in the case of this population .
although the brandywine population is still predominantly rural , `` there are indications of a consistent and a statistically significant trend away from the older and relatively isolated rural communities .
this conclusion is , however , an over-simplification .
in the urban area , in other words , they , unlike some urban ethnic groups , do not concentrate in ghetto colonies .
in such a setting social contacts and associations are likely to be heterogamous , resulting in a change of values and , almost necessarily , in mate selection behavior .
social control .
by means of this social control , deviance is either eliminated or somehow made compatible with the function of the social group .
socialization .
confused and divided though this tradition may be , it is an important part of the social and cultural heritage of the group , and acts as a means of socialization , particularly for members of the rural community .
boundary maintenance .
the process of boundary maintenance identifies and preserves the social system or subsystems , and the characteristic interaction is maintained .
the fertility rate pattern would seem to be a function , though a latent one , of the process of maintaining the boundary .
'' the external pattern or external system can be considered as `` group behavior that enables the group to survive in its environment .
it is also expressed in the proscription against deviants in the matter of endogamy , particularly in rural areas .
systemic linkage .
a royal decree issued in 1910 , two years after the belgian government assumed authority for the administration of the congo , prescribed the registration of all adult males by chiefdoms .
in 1922 a continuous registration of the whole indigenous population was instituted by ordinance of the governor-general , and the periodic compilation of these records was ordered .
a unified set of regulations , applicable to all areas , was issued in 1929 , and a complementary series of demographic inquiries in selected areas was instituted at the same time .
general responsibility for its administration rested with a division of the colonial government concerned with labor supply and native affairs , service des affaires indigenes et de la main-d'oeuvre ( aimo , af direction , af direction generale , gouvernement generale ) .
the district officials , along with their other duties , were obliged to organize special demographic inquiries in selected areas and to supervise the annual tabulations of demographic statistics .
the cards , filed by circonscription ( sub-chiefdom , or village ) , are kept in the headquarters of each territoire ( chiefdom ) .
additional entries must be made from time to time .
so a quick count could be made at any time , even by an illiterate clerk , of the number of registered persons in four age-and-sex classes .
similar identification cards were issued in 1959 to all adult females .
the registration card of a person leaving his home territory for a short period is put into a special file for absent persons .
finally , the registration of births and deaths by nearest relatives was made compulsory in most regions .
in addition , demographic inquiries , supposedly involving field investigations , were conducted in selected minor divisions ( circonscriptions ) containing about 3 percent of the total population .
the areas to be examined in these inquiries were selected by local officials , supposedly as representative of a larger population .
the scheme , in theory , is an ingenious adaptation of european registration systems to the conditions of african life .
the sampling program was instituted before the principles of probability sampling were widely recognized in population studies .
the distinction between domiciled ( de jure ) and present ( de facto ) population was not clearly defined .
the system tended to break down during the war , but was reactivated ; ;
in spite of the defects in this system , the figures on total population during the late 1930's and again in the early 1950's seem to have represented actual conditions in most districts with approximate fidelity .
the same system , with minor modifications , was developed in ruanda-urundi under belgian administration .
before considering more recent activities , we should note another important aspect of demography in belgian africa .
the work of fonds reine elisabeth pour l'assistance medicale aux indigenes du congo belge ( foreami ) has special interest with respect to demography .
each year from 1941 on , its medical staff had conducted intensive field investigations to determine changes in population structure and vital rates and , as its primary objective , the incidence of major diseases .
somewhat similar investigations have been made by medical officers in other areas .
these studies vary widely in scope and precision .
a massive investigation of the characteristics of in-migrants and prospective out-migrants in ruanda-urundi is being carried on by j. j. maquet , former director of the social science branch of irsac , now a professor at l'universite officielle du congo belge et du ruanda-urundi .
the results are now being analyzed .
the aimo organizations of both countries , which maintain administrative services throughout the territories , retained immediate responsibility for the collection and publication of demographic information .
a bureau de la demographie ( a. romaniuk , director ) was formed under aimo in the congo , to work in close rapport with the section statistique of the secretariat general .
the 1952 demographic inquiry in ruanda-urundi was directed by v. neesen , a member of the irsac staff , though the inquiry was carried out under the auspices of aimo , which has continuing responsibility for demographic statistics in this territory .
the initiation of sampling censuses in ruanda-urundi ( 1952 ) and in the congo ( 1955 - 57 ) were major advances .
the radical nature of the innovation in the congo was not emphasized in the official announcements .
however , the differences in procedure are fundamental .
field operations were transferred from administrative personnel primarily engaged in other tasks to specially trained teams of full-time african investigators ( three teams , each working in two provinces ) .
( 2 ) nature of the sample .
in short , scientific sampling was introduced in place of subjective sampling .
sample units ( villages in rural areas , houses in cities ) were drawn systematically within these strata .
different sampling ratios were applied under different conditions .
about 11 percent of the total population was covered in the new investigation , as compared with about 3 percent in the previous inquiries .
uniform questions , definitions , and procedures were enforced throughout the whole country .
( b ) residents , absent ; ;
in the reports , summary results are given for both the de facto ( a and c ) and de jure ( a and b ) populations ; ;
these changes represent , in effect , a shift from ( 1 ) an administrative compilation of data obtained through procedures designed primarily to serve political and economic objectives to ( 2 ) a systematic sampling census of the whole african population .
it supplies local data which are useful in administration and which can be used as a basis for intensive studies in particular situations .
it also provides a frame within which the registration of vital events is gradually gaining force ( though one cannot expect to obtain reliable vital statistics in most parts of the congo from this source in the near future ) .
finally , it may have certain very important , less obvious values .
the quality of the census data can , therefore , be greatly improved by the use of the registration records in conjunction with the field inquiries .
the first sampling census in the congo extended over a three-year period , 1955 - 57 ; ;
it is planned to double the number of teams and to make use of improved equipment in a second demographic inquiry in 1960 , so that the inquiry can be carried through in one year and the results published more expeditiously .
reports already issued on the sampling census , 1955 - 57 , in various areas run as follows ( using only the french and omitting corresponding flemish titles ) .
other reports in identical form , but with somewhat varying content , have been issued .
with this evidence in mind , the writer began to plan how he might more effectively educate the married students in his functional classes .
he found , as he had suspected , a general consensus that perhaps over half of the present functionally designed course was not really functional for these students .
in their own words , it had aided them to get a clearer picture of how they had gotten into their marriages , and perhaps they had obtained some insights on why certain troubles appeared from time to time .
but they all hastened to add that certainly less time was needed on it than presently spent .
a few were doubtful about the merits of an exclusive section for married students .
i can now better see just what processes provoked certain actions from me in the past .
this comment and others similar to it , would seem to indicate a possible justification for continuing the status quo .
thus , the writer decided to hold one experimental section of the functional preparation for marriage course in the spring semester of 1960 exclusively for persons already married -- that is , prerequisite : `` marriage '' .
but only those already married could enroll in this one section .
( 1 ) the regular sections do not allow freshmen ; ;
this action was rationalized on the basis of a small survey which indicated that a high percentage of married freshmen women on our campus never become sophomores .
by permitting freshman students we might extend the opportunity for such a course to some individuals who otherwise might never get to take it .
( 2 ) auditors were encouraged .
the philosophy has been that if they could find the time to attend class why not encourage them to get the credit and perhaps provide an incentive to do the work more effectively .
but in this one section we welcomed auditors .
for no particular reason , other than that the writer felt it might -- just might -- encourage both mates to be in attendance .
incidentally , it needs to be noted that because auditors were permitted the section began increasing in numbers each week , until at last it swelled to such proportions that this `` free '' auditing policy had to be retracted .
this experimental class represented quite a variety of students .
it ranged from those with no children , through students in various stages of pregnancy , to one 44-year-old male with four children , three of whom were teenagers .
one might digress at this point and speculate that if it is `` wise '' to create special sections for special status , then why not a special section for women pregnant before marriage , and one for 44-year-old men with teenage children , and so on .
but few who have experienced marriage can dispute the fact that the focus of interpersonal relationships is different in marriage than in a pre-marital situation .
he made it clear from the beginning that this was the students' opportunity , and that the future destiny of such groups depended on favorable results from this one .
this is to say that this was not a course in wise buying or money spending methods , nor a course in how to raise children .
but within that framework he allowed for as much flexibility as possible .
the writer , being cognizant through his interviews of the reactions of previous married students , did insist on there being included some `` hindsight '' material .
or `` how do we enrich our already fine marriage '' ? ?
our campus , unfortunately , owns no films .
the writer never knew from week to week just where the section might be .
since the writer had established this democratic procedure in the beginning he had to go along with their decision -- after , of course , pointing out whether he thought their decision was a wise or an unwise one .
nevertheless , the writer has never experienced such spontaneity of discussion after film showings .
they began to meet in the evenings and carry forward various discussions they felt not fully enough covered in class .
also , although only a few of the students were intimately acquainted with each other in the beginning , most reported that when the semester ended their dearest and closest campus friendships were with members of that class .
supplemental outside reading reports were handled just as in the other sections , the major difference being that there was a noticeably deeper level in the reported outside reading by the married group .
in addition to the noticeable difference in outside articles , there was a considerable difference in the outside books they read .
since the writer had not noticed this characteristic in married students scattered throughout the various sections previous to this experiment , nor , as a matter of fact , in those who were continuing in `` single sections '' , he can only conclude that there must have been something `` contagious '' within the specific group which caused this to occur .
( 1 ) a great deal of time was spent on processes for solving marital differences .
in short , it was centered around learning how to develop a more sensitive empathy .
from here they proceeded to ( 3 ) these same areas in relation to their own future family life stages , developing these to the extent of examining various crises which could be expected to confront them at some time or other .
mainly these were concerned with the possibility of the death of one parent and the complication of living with the survivor afterward , but the possible death of one's own spouse was not overlooked .
this was not a particularly shocking or unexpected thing -- it was previously known to her that it might happen .
since her bereavement this individual has reported to the writer on numerous occasions about how helpful the class discussions were to her in this adjustment crisis .
these were often carefully written out with a great deal of thought behind them .
both sexes reported that the discussions on sex adjustment within marriage were extremely enlightening .
he felt certain for the first time in his teaching experience that the men in the class understood that orgasm , as a criterion , is not nearly so essential for a satisfying female sexual experience as most males might think .
on the other hand , the women class members appeared to reach a far greater understanding than have women members in other sections that it is more natural for males as a group to view sex as sex rather than always associating it with love as most women seem to do .
perhaps this was related to the fact that all were in on it to some extent .
there was a particularly marvelous opportunity for study in this area since almost every stage of pregnancy was represented , from a childless couple to and including every trimester .
there was also one spontaneous abortion during the semester .
it was predicted that kohnstamm-negative subjects would adhere to more liberal , concretistic reports of what the ambiguous figure `` looked like '' as reflecting their hesitancy about taking chances .
responses such as `` rope with a loop in it '' , and `` two pieces of rope '' , were quite characteristic .
the three personality inventories ( guilford ; ;
guilford-martin ) were filled out by 12 of the kohnstamm-positive subjects and 19 of the kohnstamm-negative subjects .
some predictions had been made concerning factors r , n , i and co on these inventories which appeared to be directly related to control and security aspects of personality functioning which were hypothesized as being of importance in differential kohnstamm reactivity .
one prediction had been made about the difference in security or self-confidence between those subjects who shifted their kohnstamm reactivity when informed and those who did not .
it was predicted that those who shifted in their kohnstamm reactivity would differ significantly from those who did not on the factor i which the investigators refer to as the `` inferiority '' factor .
a t test on these two groups , shifters vs. nonshifters , gave a `` t '' value of 2.405 which is significant on the two-tail test at the
discussion
individual differences in kohnstamm reactivity to controlled kohnstamm situations were found among the subjects used in the study .
there were 49% ( 20 subjects ) who did not give a positive reaction even after they were informed of the normalcy of such a reaction and had been given a demonstration .
among this latter group there were also differences in the amount and kind of information necessary before a shift in reaction occurred .
five subjects ( 12% ) did not change until they had been told that some people have something happen to their arm , what that something was , and also were given a demonstration .
at no time was it implied by the experimenter that the subject's initial reaction was deviant .
those who responded with an arm-elevation in the naive state did not change their reaction when told that there were some normal people who did not react in this fashion .
these subjects implied that they too could prevent their arms from rising if they tried .
in no way , either verbally or behaviorally , did the experimenter indicate to the subjects any preferred mode of responding to the voluntary contraction .
they continued to give an arm-elevation .
autosuggestibility , the reaction of the subject in such a way as to conform to his own expectations of the outcome ( i.e. , that the arm-rise is a reaction to the pressure exerted in the voluntary contraction , because of his knowledge that `` to every reaction there is an equal and opposite reaction '' ) also seems inadequate as an explanation for the following reasons : ( 1 ) the subjects' apparently genuine experience of surprise when their arms rose , and ( 2 ) manifestations of the phenomenon despite anticipations of something else happening ( e.g. , of becoming dizzy and maybe falling , an expectation spontaneously volunteered by one of the subjects ) .
while they were told that there were some normal people who reacted differently than they had , they were also informed that there were other normals who reacted as they had .
a more tenable explanation for the change in reactions is that the added knowledge and increased familiarity with the total situation made it possible for these subjects to be less guarded and to relax , since any reaction seemed acceptable to the examiner as `` normal '' .
they were not free to be themselves in this situation , an interpersonal one , where there was an observer of their reactions and they had no guide for acceptable behavior .
while other conditions might be even more effective in bringing about a change from immobility to mobility in kohnstamm reactivity , it is our hypothesis that all such conditions would have as a common factor the capacity to induce an attitude in the subject which enabled him to divorce himself temporarily from feelings of responsibility for his behavior .
this subject , who has been undergoing psychoanalytic psychotherapy for five years , did not give a positive kohnstamm reaction under any of the four standardized conditions used in this experiment while sober .
there was evident delight on the part of the subject in response to her experience of the freedom of movement .
she ascribed her delight with both experiences to the effect they seemed to have of temporarily removing from her the controls which she felt so compulsively necessary to maintain even when it might seem appropriate to relax these controls .
these suggested interpretations were given by the subjects spontaneously when they were told that there were people who reacted differently than they had .
they explained its absence in others on the basis of an intervention of control factors .
some of those who did not initially react with an arm-elevation also associated their behavior in the situation with control factors -- an inability to relinquish control voluntarily .
another said that her arm did not go up at first `` because i wouldn't let it ; ;
this subject was one who gave an arm-elevation on the second trial in the naive state but not in the first .
she explained nonreactivity of others by saying that they were `` not letting themselves relax '' .
in contrast to this voluntary-control explanation for nonreactivity given by the kohnstamm-positive subjects , the kohnstamm-negative subjects offered an involuntary-control hypothesis to explain nonreactivity .
the above discussion does not mean to imply that control factors were completely in abeyance in the kohnstamm-positive subjects ; ;
one kohnstamm-positive subject who had both arms rise while being tested in the naive condition described her subjective experience as follows : `` you feel they're going up and you're on a stage and it's not right for them to do so and then you think maybe that's what's supposed to happen '' .
however , she was able to relax and yield to the moment .
that they can give up their control and allow themselves to be reactors rather than actors .
thus , this readiness to relax controls , evidenced in the kohnstamm situation , appears to be a more general personality factor .
the kohnstamm-positive subjects seemed to be freer to experience the unusual and seemingly impossible in the external world .
this occurred in spite of the rational awareness that the ball should be going downhill .
yet they were not so bound by past experience and constriction as to deny their immediate perceptions and to be dominated by their knowledge of what the experience should be .
they were able to experience at first , in terms of past conventionality .
it might be postulated that these subjects are unduly afraid of being wrong ; ;
while the interpretations that have been given are inferences only , they gain support from such comments as the following , which was made by one of the kohnstamm-negative subjects who did not , on the first trial , perceive the tilt illusion .
it would have been desirable for the two communities to have differed only in respect to the variable being investigated : the degree of structure in teaching method .
the unstructured schools were in a large suburban community , predominantly middle- to upper-middle class , but fringed by an industrial area .
school principals and guidance workers made ratings of the various neighborhoods and the research team made independent observations of houses and dwelling areas .
equal proportions of children in each city were drawn from upper-lower and lower-middle class neighborhoods .
individual differences in maturation and the development of readiness for learning to read indicate that not until the third grade have most children had ample opportunity to demonstrate their capacity for school achievement .
for purposes of sample selection only ( individual tests were given later ) we obtained group test scores of reading achievement and intelligence from school records of the entire third-grade population in each school system .
children whose reading scores were at least one standard deviation below the regression line of each total third-grade school population were considered under-achievers for the purposes of sample selection .
the final sample was not significantly different from a normal distribution in regard to reading achievement or intelligence test scores .
eight classrooms in three structured schools furnished 72 cases , 36 boys and 36 girls .
it was assumed that the sampling procedure was purely random with respect to the personality variables under investigation .
an interview schedule of open-ended questions and a multiple-choice questionnaire were prepared , and one parent of each of the sample children was seen in the home .
the interviewers were instructed not to suggest answers and , as much as possible , to record the parents' actual words as they described the child's behavior in home situations .
final ratings were made on the basis of a point system which was developed after studying the distributions of actual behaviors recorded and assigning weight values to each type of behavior that was deviant from the discovered norms .
the low compulsive child was one who appeared relatively unconcerned about such matters .
but she cleans it up very well when i remind her '' .
castaneda , et al revised the taylor anxiety scale for use with children .
there is much research evidence to validate the use of the instrument in differentiating individuals who are likely to manifest anxiety in varying degrees .
although the taylor scale was designed as a group testing device , in this study it was individually administered by psychologically trained workers who established rapport and assisted the children in reading the items .
the question may be raised whether or not we are dealing with a common factor in anxiety and compulsivity .
therefore , we have measured two different characteristics .
the issue of interaction between anxiety and compulsivity will be taken up later .
in the primary grades , reading permeates almost every aspect of school progress , and the children's early experiences of success or failure in learning to read often set a pattern of total achievement that is relatively enduring throughout the following years .
the predicted interaction effect should , if potent , extend its influence over all academic achievement .
all of these sub-tests involve reading except arithmetic computation .
the battery median grade-equivalent was used in data analysis in this study .
the relationship of intelligence test scores to school achievement is a well-established fact ( in this case , af ) ; ;
the criterion score used in the statistical analysis is an index of over- or under-achievement .
for example , on the basis of the regression equation , a child with an i.q. of 120 in this sample would be expected to earn an achievement test score of 4.8 ( grade equivalent ) .
a child with an i.q. of 98 would be expected to earn an achievement test score of 3.5 .
in this manner , the factors measured by the intelligence test were controlled , allowing discovered differences in achievement to be interpreted as resulting from other variables .
test of interaction of compulsivity and teaching methods
figure 1 portrays the mean achievement scores of each sub-group graphically .
it can be seen too that when we contrast levels of compulsivity within the structured schools , the high compulsive children do better ( af ) .
the hypothesis of there being an interaction between compulsivity and teaching method was supported , in this case , at the level .
indeed their achievement scores were somewhat better on an absolute basis although the difference was not significant .
it is interesting to note that medium compulsives in the unstructured schools made the lowest achievement scores ( although not significantly lower ) .
our conjecture is , then , that regardless of the manner in which school lessons are taught , the compulsive child accentuates those elements of each lesson that aid him in systematizing his work .
test of interaction of anxiety and teaching methods
figure 2 is a graph of the mean achievement scores of each group .
the interaction effect , which is significant at the level , can be seen best in the contrast of mean scores .
the most striking aspect of the interaction demonstrated is the marked decrement in performance suffered by the highly anxious children in unstructured schools .
the fact that such threat is potent in the beginning reading lessons is thought to be a vital factor in the continued pattern of failure or under-achievement these children exhibit .
failure confirms the threat , and the intensity of anxiety is increased as the required learning becomes more difficult , so that by the time the child reaches the third grade the decrement in performance is pronounced .
but the symbols he is asked to learn are simple .
success reduces the prospect of threat and his powers of discrimination are improved .
apparently academic challenge in the structured setting creates an optimum of stress so that the child with high anxiety is able to achieve because he is aroused to an energetic state without becoming confused or panicked .
although the present study was not a direct replication of their investigations , the results do not confirm their conclusion .
yet the highly anxious child suffered a tremendous disadvantage only in the unstructured school , and performed as well or better than average in the structured setting .
analysis means the evaluation of subparts , the comparative ratings of parts , the comprehension of the meaning of isolated elements .
impersonal purposes
roleplaying can be done for quite a different purpose : to evaluate procedures , regardless of individuals .
examples
one should keep in mind that many of the exciting possiblities of roleplaying are largely unexplored and have not been used in industry to the extent that they have been in military and other areas .
the president of a small firm selling restaurant products , had considerable difficulty in finding suitable salesmen for his business .
it was his experience that only one good salesman was found out of every seven hired -- and only one was hired out of every seven interviewed .
in place of asking salesmen to fill questionnaires , checking their references , interviewing them , asking them to be tried out , he told them he would prefer to test them .
each salesman was to read a sheet containing a description of the product .
in the testing room , three of the veteran salesmen served as antagonists .
each was told to purchase material if he felt like it .
after each presentation , the antagonist wrote his judgment of the salesmen ; ;
ten salesmen were tested in the morning and ten more in the afternoon .
the batting average of one success out of seven increased to one out of three .
the reason for the value of this procedure was simply that the applicants were tested `` at work '' in different situations by the judgment of a number of experts who could see how the salesmen conducted themselves with different , but typical restaurant owners and managers .
from the point of view of the applicants , less time was wasted in being evaluated -- and they got a meal out of it as well as some insights into their performances .
the position of receptionist was opened in a large office and an announcement was made to the other girls already working that they could apply for this job which had higher prestige and slightly higher salary than typing and clerking positions .
at the end of work one day , the personnel man took the applicants one at a time , asked them to sit behind the receptionist's desk and he then played the role of a number of people who might come to the receptionist with a number of queries and for a number of purposes .
somewhat to his surprise he found that one girl , whom he would never have considered for the job since she had appeared somewhat mousy and also had been in the office a relatively short time , did the most outstanding job of playing the role of receptionist , showing wit , sparkle , and aplomb .
analysis
some cases in evidence of the use of roleplaying for analysis may help explain the procedure .
the engineer had more than seven years of experience in the firm , was well trained , was considered a hard worker , was respected by his fellow engineers for his technical competence and was regarded as a `` comer '' .
he seemed to antagonize everyone .
despite the fact that he was regarded as an outstanding engineer , he seemed to be a very poor administrator , although no one quite knew what was wrong with him .
he played a number of typical situations before observers , other supervisors who kept notes and then explained to him in detail what he did they thought was wrong .
he did not really listen to others , had little interest in their ideas , and wanted to have his own way -- which was the only right way .
one by one , these errors were discussed and one by one he rejected accepting them as errors .
he refused to change his approach , and instead he attacked high and low -- the officials for their not backing him , and subordinates for their laxness , stupidity , and stubbornness .
we may say that his problem was diagnosed but that he refused treatment .
we may say that his attitude was foolish , since he may have been a success had he learned some human relations skills ; ;
in any case , he refused to accept the implications of the analysis , that he needed to be made over .
in a course for supermarket operators , a district manager who had been recently appointed to his position after being outstandingly successful as a store manager , found that in supervising other managers he was having a difficult time .
he was told he displayed , for example , a sense of superiority -- and he answered : `` well , i am supposed to know all the answers , aren't i '' ? ?
on being criticized for his arbitrary behavior -- he answered : `` i have to make decisions .
in short , as frequently happens in analyses , the individual feels threatened and defends himself .
the necessary step between diagnosis and training is acceptance of the validity of the criticisms .
the director helped tailor-make a check list of the district manager's errors by asking various observers to write out sentences commenting on the mistakes they felt he made .
eighteen errors were located , and then the director asked each individual to vote whether or not they felt that this manager had made the particular errors .
and `` cannot say '' if they were not certain .
no comments were made during the voting .
the first eight of these eighteen statements , which received at least one-half of the votes , were duplicated to form an analysis checklist for the particular manager , and when this particular manager roleplayed in other situations , the members checked any items that appeared .
after every session , the check marks were totaled up and graphed , and in this way the supervisor's progress was charted .
in life we learn to play our roles and we `` freeze '' into patterns which become so habitual that we are not really aware of what we do .
to learn what we do is the first step for improvement .
to want to change is the third step .
to use these new ways in daily life is the last step .
when an evaluative situation is set up , and no concern is with the details that lead to an over-all estimate , we say that roleplaying is used for evaluation .
this behavior is more `` veridical '' -- or true -- than other testing behavior for some types of evaluation , and so can give quick and accurate estimates of complex functioning .
chapter 10 , spontaneity training
in addition , the basic approach utilized in applying roleplaying will be reviewed .
the reasons for extracting this particular roleplaying application from the previous discussion of training are twofold .
spontaneity training theory is unique and relatively new .
one learns to become alert to changes in his vocal tone -- to his voice's suddenly shifting to a quality not like his usual one , a quality which sounds somehow artificial or , in some instances , parrot-like .
only seldom is it so simple as to be a matter of his obviously parroting some timeworn axiom , common to our culture , which he has evidently heard , over and over , from a parent until he experiences it as part of him .
eventually such incidents became more sporadic , and more sharply demarcated from her day-after-day behavior , and in one particular session , after several minutes of such behavior -- which , as usual , went on without any accompanying words from her -- she asked , eagerly , `` did you see granny '' ? ?
i thought she must be seeing me as some one who had just come from seeing her grandmother , in their distant home-city .
and when i replied in this spirit , she corroborated my hunch .
i could evoke no further elaboration from her about this ; ;
again , i at first misconstrued this disconcertingly intense communication , and i quickly cast through my mind to account for her being able to speak , with such utter conviction , of an opinion held by my father , now several years deceased .
she looked confused at this , and i felt sure it had been a wrong response for me to make .
she clearly agreed that this had been the case .
it was as if she was showing me one of the reasons why she hated that woman inside her .
earlier , this woman had been so filled with a chaotic variety of introjects that at times , when she was in her room alone , it would sound to a passerby as though there were several different persons in the room , as she would vocalize in various kinds of voice .
particularly hard for the therapist to grasp are those instances in which the patient is manifesting an introject traceable to something in the therapist , some aspect of the therapist of which the latter is himself only poorly aware , and the recognition of which , as a part of himself , he finds distinctly unwelcome .
and only when i can acknowledge this , to myself , as being indeed an aspect of my personality , does it cease to be a prominently troublesome aspect of the patient's behavior .
eventually it became clear to me , partly with the aid of another schizophrenic patient who could point out my condescension to me somewhat more directly , that this man , with his condescending , `` you're welcome '' , was very accurately personifying an element of obnoxious condescension which had been present in my own demeanor , over these months , on each of these occasions when i had bid him good-bye with the consoling note , each time , that the healing christ would be stooping to dispense this succor to the poor sufferer again on the morrow .
this behavior on her part subsided only after i had come to see the uncomfortably close similarity between , on the one hand , her arranging the ventilation of the common living room to her own liking , or turning the television off or on without regard to the wishes of the others , and on the other hand , my own coming stolidly into her room despite her persistent and vociferous objections , bringing my big easy chair with me , usually shutting the windows of her room which she preferred to keep in a very cold state , and plunking myself down in my chair -- in short , behaving as if i owned her room .
condensation .
one finds , for example , that a terse and stereotyped verbal expression , seeming at first to be a mere hollow convention , reveals itself over the months of therapy as the vehicle for expressing the most varied and intense feelings , and the most unconventional of meanings .
one cannot assume , of course , that all these accumulated meanings were inherent in the stereotype at the beginning of the therapy , or at any one time later on when the stereotype was uttered ; ;
but it is true that the therapist can sense , when he hears this stereotype , that there are at this moment many emotional determinants at work in it , a blurred babel of indistinct voices which have yet to become clearly delineated from one another .
or an `` i want to go home '' , or whatever -- but a nonverbal one which reveals itself , gradually , as the condensed expression of more than one latent meaning .
when the therapist came to feel on sufficiently sure ground with him to ask him , `` what is that , bill -- hello or farewell '' ? ?
of all the possible forms of nonverbal expression , that which seems best to give release , and communicational expression , to complex and undifferentiated feelings is laughter .
and which , more often than all these , conveys a welter of feelings which could in no way be conveyed by any number of words , words which are so unlike this welter in being formed and discrete from one another .
in working with these patients the therapist eventually gets to do some at least private mulling over of the possible meaning of a belch , or the passage of flatus , not only because he is reduced to this for lack of anything else to analyze , but also because he learns that even these animal-like sounds constitute forms of communication in which , from time to time , quite different things are being said , long before the patient can become sufficiently aware of these , as distinct feelings and concepts , to say them in words .
this is a question which i have no wish to take up -- condensation is a phenomenon in which one finds not a condensed expression of various feelings and ideas which are , at an unconscious level , well sorted out , but rather a condensed expression of feelings and ideas which , even in the unconscious , have yet to become well differentiated from one another .
in my experience , a great many of the patient's more puzzling verbal communications are so for the reason that concrete meanings have not become differentiated from figurative meanings in his subjective experience .
recently , for example , a paranoid woman's large-scale philosophizing , in the session , about the intrusive curiosity which has become , in her opinion , a deplorable characteristic of mid-twentieth-century human culture , developed itself , before the end of the session , into a suspicion that i was surreptitiously peeking at her partially exposed breast , as indeed i was .
of such hidden meanings the patient himself is , more often than not , entirely unaware .
one hebephrenic women confided to me , `` i live in a world of words '' , as if , to her , words were fully concrete objects ; ;
a borderline schizophrenic young man told me that to him the various theoretical concepts about which he had been expounding , in a most articulate fashion , during session after session with me , were like great cubes of almost tangibly solid matter up in the air above him ; ;
the many linguistic techniques for reducing the amount of dictionary information that have been proposed all organize the dictionary's contents around prefixes , stems , suffixes , etc. .
for english the reduction in size is less striking .
the logical scheme used to accomplish the former influences the placement of information in the dictionary file .
we suggest the application of certain data-processing techniques as a solution to the problem .
occurrence -- an instance of a form in text .
we accomplish this by compiling a list of text forms as text is read by the computer .
dictionary forms found to match forms in the text list are marked .
dictionary information about the form stored at this location can be retrieved directly by occurrences of the form in text .
the dictionary is a form dictionary , at least in the sense that complete forms are used as the basis for matching text occurrences with dictionary entries .
a more detailed description of dictionary operations -- text lookup and dictionary modification -- gives a clearer picture .
the first is compiling a list of text forms , assigning an information cell to each , and replacing text occurrences with the information cell assigned to the form of each occurrence .
cells in the x-region and y region are reserved as information cells for text forms .
let af denote the form of af .
the form itself is stored in the next available cells of the w-region , beginning in cell af .
the information cell af is saved to represent the text occurrence .
let us assume that af is identical to the form of an occurrence af which preceded af in the text .
if af was assigned as the information cell for af , the routine can detect that af is identical to af by comparing af with the form stored at location af .
when , as in this case , the two forms match , the address af is saved to represent the occurrence af .
a third situation is possible .
thus , when more than one distinct form leads to a particular cell in the x-region , a chain of information cells must be created to accommodate the forms , one cell in the chain for each form .
the cell af becomes the second information cell in the chain and is assigned as the information cell of af .
similarly , as many cells are added as are required .
each cell except the last in the chain also contains the address of the y-cell that is the next element of the chain ; ;
hence , when the address af is computed from af , the cell af and all y-cells in its chain must be inspected to determine whether af is already in the form list or whether it should be added to the form list and the chain .
text reading continues with the next occurrence .
this initiates the second step of glossary lookup -- connecting the information cell of forms in the text-form list to dictionary forms .
each time a dictionary form matches a text form , the information cell of the matching text form is saved .
these two pieces of information for each dictionary form that is matched by a text form constitute the table of dictionary usage .
the appropriate action for handling these forms can be taken at that time .
a random address af that lies within the x-region of memory mentioned earlier is computed from the i-th dictionary form .
the dictionary form is compared with each of these text forms .
if cell af is not an information cell we conclude that the i-th dictionary form is not in the text list .
the final step merely uses the table of dictionary usage to select the dictionary information that pertains to each form matched in the text-form list , and uses the list of information cells recorded in text order to attach the appropriate information to each occurrence in text .
only the assignment of the information cells is important .
the grammatical description of each occurrence in the text must be retrieved from the dictionary to permit such an analysis .
the grammatical descriptions of all forms in the dictionary are recorded in a separate part of the dictionary file .
when entries are being retrieved from this file , the table of dictionary usage indicates which entries to skip and which entries to store in the computer .
each entry that is selected for storage is written into the next available cells of the aj .
( the address of the information cell is also supplied by the table of dictionary usage .
the information cell assigned to each text form contains the address of the grammatical description of the form it represents .
the only requirements on dictionary information made by the text-lookup operation are that each form represented by the dictionary be available for lookup in the text-form list and that information for each form be available in a sequence identical with the sequence of the forms .
( here an entry is a form plus the information that pertains to it .
two very useful ways for modifying a form-dictionary are the addition to the dictionary of complete paradigms rather than single forms and the application of a single change to more than one dictionary form .
the latter is useful for modifying information about some or all forms of a word , hence reducing the work required to improve dictionary contents .
an extension of the principle would permit entering a grammatical description of each form .
thus , one can think of a dictionary entry as a word rather than a form .
for example , the inflected forms of a word can be represented , insofar as regular inflection allows , by a stem and a set of endings to be attached .
) the full forms can be derived from such information just prior to the lookup of the form in the text-form list .
the dictionary system is in no way dependent upon such summarization or designed around it .
entries are summarized only when by doing so the amount of information retained in the dictionary is reduced and the time required for dictionary operations is decreased .
the tendency is toward putting dominant stress at the end .
thus the first lines of one of charles wesley's hymns are as follows .
in the tune to which this hymn is most often sung , `` boylston '' , the syllables have and fy , ending their lines , have twice the time any other syllables have .
but the parallel is significant .
is bill's broken a chair , dominant stress will usually be on the complement a chair .
but dominant stress will be assigned to broken only in rather exceptional versions of the sentence .
in one thing i know it will usually be on the predicator know .
in the double sentence the smaller the town , the friendlier the people it will generally be on the subjects the town and the people .
dominant stress will generally be on the subject a linguist ; ;
dominant stress is on her luggage both in that's her luggage , where her luggage is the complement , and in there's her luggage , where it is the subject .
if the answer to what was that noise ? ?
final adjuncts may or may not have dominant stress .
is george reads the news emotionally , dominant stress may or may not be on the adjunct emotionally .
they are likely to lose dominant stress .
what is new in the context is likely to be made more prominent than what is not .
the personal pronouns and substitute one are normally unstressed because they refer to what is prominent in the immediate context .
but if george has just been mentioned prominently ( and the trip to be made has been under discussion ) , what is said is probably i'll go with him , and dominant stress is probably on the preposition with .
the personal pronoun has dominant stress because `` he '' has not been mentioned previously .
but when what is new in a particular context is also fairly obvious , there is normally only light stress or no stress at all .
in there aren't many young people in the neighborhood the modifier young takes dominant stress away from its head people : the fact that the young creatures of interest are people seems rather obvious .
in i have things to do the word things makes little real contribution to meaning and has weaker stress than do .
in i know one thing dominant stress is likely to go to one rather than to semantically pale thing .
dominant stress on pretty would be almost insulting here .
often , dominant stress simply indicates a centering of attention or emotion .
in she has it in for george dominant stress will ordinarily be on in , where the notion of stored-up antipathy seems to center .
where there is comparison or contrast , dominant stresses normally operate to center attention .
in he's hurting himself more than he's hurting you both himself and you have stronger stress than they would ordinarily have if there were no contrast .
the desire to contrast the first parts of words which are alike in their last components produces an exceptional disregard of the normal patterns of stress of chinese and japanese .
thus in mary wrote an account of the trip first strong stress on mary marks mary as the first in a series of people who wrote accounts of the trip , strong stress on wrote marks the writing as the first of a series of actions of mary's concerned with an account of her trip ( about which she may later have made speeches , for example ) , and strong stress on trip makes the trip the first of a series of subjects about which mary wrote accounts .
strong stress on hunger treats hunger as an additional stimulus , strong stress on stimulates treats stimulation as an additional effect of hunger , strong stress on man treats man as an additional creature who responds to the stimulation of hunger .
when a word represents a larger construction of which it is the only expressed part , it normally has more stress than it would have in fully expressed construction .
the stress on have , which here represents have finished reading the paper , is quite strong .
mack's the leader at camp , but jack's here , with this is deprived of stress , makes here the complement in the clause .
when go represents itself and a complement ( being equivalent , say , to go to martinique ) in which boat did jack go on ? ?
when it represents only itself and on which is its complement ( so that go on is semantically equivalent to board ) , on has stronger stress than go does .
thus to has light stress both in that was the conclusion that i came to and in that was the conclusion i came to .
in i wanted to tell him , but i was afraid to the final to is lightly stressed because it represents to tell him .
when i have instructions to leave is equivalent in meaning to i have instructions that i am to leave this place , dominant stress is ordinarily on leave .
it is clear that patterns of stress sometimes show construction unambiguously in the spoken language where without the help of context it would be ambiguous in the written .
`` i'll come by tuesday .
in the first of these sentences if by is the complement of come and tuesday is an adjunct of time equivalent to on tuesday , there will be strong stress on by in the spoken language ; ;
in the second sentence if drinking water is a gerundial clause and without drinking water is roughly equivalent in meaning to unless i drink water , there will be stronger stress on water than on drinking ; ;
but the use of stress in comparison and contrast , for example , can undermine distinctions such as these .
in the steiners have busy lives without visiting relatives only context can indicate whether visiting relatives is equivalent in meaning to paying visits to relatives or to relatives who are visiting them , and in i looked up the number and i looked up the chimney only the meanings of number and chimney make it clear that up is syntactically a second complement in the first sentence and a preposition followed by its object in the second .
-- syllables are linguistic units centering in peaks which are usually vocalic but , as has been noted , are consonantal under certain circumstances , and which may or may not be combined with preceding and/or following consonants or combinations of consonants .
sometimes even the number of syllables is not clear .
from the point of view of word formation real might be expected to have two syllables .
when ity is added , real clearly has two syllables .
it is obvious enough that linguists in general have been less successful in coping with tone systems than with consonants or vowels .
improvement , however , is urgent , and at least three things will be needed .
even beginning students in linguistics are made familiar with an appreciable variety of consonant systems , both in their general outlines and in many specific details .
by contrast , even experienced linguists commonly know no more of the range of possibilities in tone systems than the over-simple distinction between register and contour languages .
tone analysis will continue to be difficult and unsatisfactory until a more representative selection of systems is familar to every practicing field linguist .
the second need is better field techniques .
the result has been neglect , fumbling efforts , or superficial treatment .
analyses such as these four will simultaneously combat the assumptions that tone is impossible and that it is simple .
good field techniques will not only equip linguists for better work , but also help them overcome negative attitudes .
but it is worth pondering that very little has been published on any phase of field techniques in linguistics .
the third need is for better theory .
this can only be for one of two reasons : either the two are quite different and will require totally different theory ( and hence techniques ) , or our existing theories are insufficiently general .
one issue that must be faced is the relative difficulty of analysis of different phonologic subsystems .
actual practice does not often work out this way .
welmers has suggested one explanation .
this may both divert the attention of the uninitiate and cause confusion for the more knowledgeable .
of course , something of the same sort occurs with other sectors of the phonology : consonantal articulations have both a linguistic and an individual component .
with tone , individual differences may be greater than the linguistic contrasts which are superimposed on them .
however , any such suggestion accounts for only some of the difficulties in hearing tone , or in developing a realistic attitude about tone , but not for the analytic difficulties that occur even when tone is meticulously recorded .
tone and intonation often become seriously intermeshed .
other pairs of phonologic subsystems also interact or overlap in this way ; ;
some phonetic features , for example glottal catch or murmur , are sometimes to be assigned to segmental phonemics and sometimes to accentual systems .
this explanation of tone difficulties , however , does not apply in all languages .
in many of the syllables , intonation can be safely ignored , and much of the tonal analysis can be done without any study of intonation .
a third explanation is suggested by richardson's analysis of sukuma tone .
while the phonemes can be very easily stated , no one is likely to be satisfied with the statement until phonemic occurrences can be related in some way to morphemic units , i.e. until the morphophonemics is worked out , or at least far enough that it seems reasonable to expect success .
the phonemic systems which must support these morphophonemic systems , however , are very different .
consonantal systems are not merely larger , they are multidimensional .
the possibilities in the consonantal system are very numerous , and only a small portion of them are actually used .
tonal morphophonemics , in a common case , can do nothing but either raise or lower the tone .
often , therefore , there are a number of rules having the same effect , and commonly other sets of rules as well , having the opposite effect .
the difficulty of analysis of any subsystem in the phonology is an inverse function of the size -- smaller systems are more troublesome -- for any given degree of morphophonemic complexity .
the statement of the system is a different matter .
a phonemic system can be stated without reference to morphophonemics , but it cannot always be found without morphophonemics .
the design of orthographies has received much less attention from linguists than the problem deserves .
this seems naive .
apparently the feeling is that anything more would be involvement in technical abstrusenesses of possible pedantic interest but of no visible significance in practical affairs .
many of the suggested systems seem to have only the most tenuous relationship to the language structures that they purport to represent .
as a result , many people have been confirmed in their conviction that orthography design is not an activity to which experts can contribute anything but confusion .
his objective is merely to determine `` what distinctions of length and syllabicity it may be desirable to make explicit in a kikuyu orthography '' ( 59 ) .
in the process , he develops some very significant observations about problems of a sort that are often difficult .
his orthographic recommendations are no simplistic acceptance of phonemics on the one hand or of superficiality on the other .
he concludes that some changes can be made in the current orthography which will appreciably improve its usefulness , but hesitates to suggest precise graphic devices to effect these changes .
this , however , will not exhaust their practical usefulness , as they rather clearly indicate what thorough phonologic investigation can contribute to orthography design .
one other paper deals with a phonologic problem : vowel harmony in igbo , by j. carnochan .
as a restatement it makes only a small contribution to knowledge of igbo .
the paper has a certain value as a comparatively easy introduction to this approach , particularly since it treats a fairly simple and straightforward phenomenon where it is possible to compare it with a more traditional ( though not structural ) statement .
but it does not , as it claims , demonstrate that this could not be treated by traditional methods .
five of the papers deal with grammatical problems .
my comments must be briefer than the papers deserve .
this must be considered primarily an amendment and supplement to his early a short description of item-categories in iraqw .
the treatment seems unnecessarily loose-jointed and complex , largely because the method is lax and the analysis seems never to be pushed to a satisfactory or even a consistent stopping-point .
this may be because the athabascan divergence began earlier ; ;
or both .
( on deduction of one-eighth from 3.46 , the stem / item rate becomes 3.03 against 2.75 in equivalent number of languages .
the greatest difference in the two sets of figures is due to differences in the two sets of lists used .
swadesh in short was trying to develop a basic list that was universal ; ;
the result is that i included 70 animal names , but swadesh only 4 ; ;
swadesh , and therefore hoijer , felt compelled to omit all terms denoting species or even genera ( ox , vulture , salmon , yellow pine , manzanita ) ; ;
the groups are therefore really non-comparable in content as well as in size .
what we have left as reasonably comparable are four classes : ( 1 ) body parts and products , which with a proportionally nearly even representation ( 51 terms out of 253 , 25 out of 100 ) come out with nearly even ratios ; ;
( 2 ) nature ( 29 terms against 17 ) , ratios 3.3 versus 4.1 ; ;
( 4 ) verbs ( 9 , 22 terms ) , ratios 4.0 versus 3.4 .
this exception may be connected with hoijer's use of a much higher percentage of verbs : 22% of his total list as against 3.5% in mine .
more word class ratios determined in more languages will no doubt ultimately answer the question .
if word classes differ in their resistance or liability to stem replacement within meaning slot , it is conceivable that individual meanings also differ with fair consistence trans-lingually .
the totals for these five categories are not too uneven , namely 20 , 15 , 11 , 16 , 9 respectively .
the three others had to be spread somewhat , and are headed respectively af ; ;
and af stems .
when now we count the frequency of the 71 items in the two language families appearing in the same column or grade , or one column or grade apart , or two or three or four , we find these differences : af
this distribution can be summarized by averaging the distance in grades apart : af ; ;
if the distribution of the 71 items were wholly concordant in the two families , the distance would of course be 0 .
the actual mean of 1.07 being about halfway between 0 of complete correlation and 2.0 of no correlation , it is evident that there is a pretty fair degree of similarity in the behavior even of particular individual items of meaning as regards long-term stem displacement .
in 1960 , david d. thomas published basic vocabulary in some mon-khmer languages ( al 2 , no. 3 , pp. 7 - 11 ) , which compares 8 mon-khmer languages with the i-e language data on which swadesh based the revised retention rate ( af ) in place of original ( af ) , and his revised 100 word basic glottochronological list in towards greater accuracy ( ijal 21 : :
thomas' findings are , first , `` that the individual items vary greatly and unpredictably in their persistence '' ; ;
his first conclusion , on behavior of individual items , is negative , whereas mine ( on ath. and yok. ) was partially positive .
this second conclusion , independently arrived at by independent study of material from two pairs of language families as different and remote from one another as these four are , cannot be ignored .
thus his persistence values for some stem frequencies per meaning are : stem identical in 8 languages , 100% ; ;
stem frequencies 4 and 4 , 64% ; ;
his formula will have to be weighed , may be altered or improved , and it should be tested on additional bodies of material .
and gleason presumably is on the way with a further contribution in this area .
the problem needs further exploration .
or under ' four stems ' , i set off by asterisks cases where the combined n of stems af was af .
these findings , and others which will in time be developed , will affect the method of glottochronological inquiry .
had hoijer substituted for his 15 adjectival slots 15 good animal and plant items , his rate of stem replacement would have been lower and the age of athabascan language separation smaller .
it is evident that swadesh has not only had much experience with basic vocabulary in many languages but has acquired great tact and feeling for the expectable behavior of lexical items .
it is the urge to obtain a list as free of geographical and cultural conditioning as possible .
it is the hope of attaining a list of items of universal occurrence .
not that such a list cannot be constructed ; ;
its terms will tend to be labile or vague , and they will fit actual languages more and more badly .
the most important quality of the meanings is that they should be as definable as possible .
an elephant or a fox or a swan or a cocopalm or a banana possess in unusually high degree this quality of obvious , common-sense , indubitable identity , as do an eye or tooth or nail .
and they should be given priority in the basic list as long as they continue to show these qualities .
and he has proclaimed greater or less affiliation between all western hemisphere languages .
but the farther out he moves , the thinner will be his hold on conclusive evidence , and the larger the speculative component in his inferences .
he has announced results on hokan , penutian , uto-aztecan , and almost all other american families and phyla , and has diagrammed their degree of interrelation ; ;
that is his privilege .
but there is also a firm aspect to lexicostatistics : the aspect of learning the internal organization of obvious natural genetic groups of languages as well as their more remote and elusive external links ; ;
of acquiring evidential knowledge of what happened in athabascan , in yokuts , in uto-aztecan in the last few thousand years as well as forecasting what more anciently may have happened between them .
if of the founders of glottochronology swadesh has escaped our steady plodding , and lees has repudiated his own share in the founding , that is no reason why we should swerve .
there is no apparent reason why we should feel bound by swadesh's rules and procedure since his predilections and aims have grown so vast .
i would propose , first , an abandonment of attempts at a universal lexical list , as intrinsically unachievable , and operationally inadequate in proportion as it is achieved .
there would be no conceivable sense in going to the opposite extreme of selecting items whose forms are the most unstable .
doubtless it was inevitable that differences of opinion should arise about the methods for applying these policies .
5 .
frontiers .
starting in great force late in december , from a line stretching from east prussia to budapest , the red armies had swept two hundred miles across poland to the oder , thirty miles from berlin , and the upper danube region was being rapidly overrun , while the western allies had not yet occupied all of the left bank of the rhine .
the west was now glad to propose the 1919 curzon line , which was substantially russia's 1941 border , as the boundary between russia and poland .
he stood up to emphasize his strong feeling on the subject .
`` you would drive us into shame '' , he declared .
yet after long and earnest discussion stalin accepted the curzon line and even agreed voluntarily that there should be digressions from that line of five to eight kilometers in favor of poland in some regions .
the west had long since forgotten the events of 1919 , but it was not so easy for the red leaders , who felt that they had suffered great injustice in that period .
now stalin made it clear that he meant to move poland's western borders deep into germany , back to the western neisse-oder river lines , taking not only east prussia and all of silesia but pomerania and the tip of brandenburg , back to and including stettin .
stalin declared that he preferred to continue the war a little longer , `` although it costs us blood '' , in order to give poland compensation in the west at the expense of the germans .
after `` a prolonged study of the oder line on a map '' , at teheran , churchill `` liked the picture '' .
at yalta he thought more about the six million germans who would have to leave , trying to find work in germany , and roosevelt objected to the western neisse river being chosen in the south , instead of the eastern neisse , both of which flow into the oder .
however , there was no real question of the justice of creating a strong poland , both industrially and agriculturally , and one unplagued by large minorities of germans or russians .
government .
at yalta the west still believed that eastern europe could be kept in its orbit , in spite of the onrushing soviet armies .
believing devoutly as they did in anglo-saxon institutions , it was important to both roosevelt and churchill that the poles should have them .
more time was spent in trying to marry these incompatibles than over any subject discussed at yalta .
all `` democratic and anti-nazi parties '' were to have the right to campaign .
it was a matter of principle with churchill , since britain had declared war in behalf of poland .
he made this completely clear .
throughout history , poland has been the corridor through which the enemy has passed into russia .
it is in russia's interest that poland should be strong and powerful , in a position to shut the door of this corridor by her own force .
therefore , it is not only a question of honor but of life and death for the soviet state '' .
byrnes says that invariably thereafter the soviets used the same security argument to justify their course in poland .
any free elections that were to be held in poland would have to produce a government in which moscow had complete confidence , and all pressure from the west for free voting by anti-soviet elements in poland would be met by restrictions on voting by these elements .
liberated europe
but at yalta the conflicting expectations of east and west were merged into an agreement by the big three to assist all liberated countries in europe `` to create democratic institutions of their own choice '' .
other similar affirmations in the declaration on liberated europe seemed to assure democratic institutions on the western model .
professor mcneill thinks that at yalta , stalin did not fully realize the dilemma which faced him , that he thought the exclusion of the anti-soviet voters from east european elections would not be greatly resented by his allies , while neither roosevelt nor churchill frankly faced `` the fact that , in poland at least , genuinely free democratic elections would return governments unfriendly to russia '' , by any definition of international friendliness .
the application of these formulae could not please both sides , for they really attempted to marry the impossible to the inevitable .
this illusion was described in a far-sighted editorial in the new york herald tribune , on march 5 , 1947 , in connection with the submission of the satellite peace treaties to the senate .
we had entertained exaggerated ideas about our victory automatically establishing our system throughout the world .
yalta left us with comforting illusions of a western capitalist-democratic political economy reigning supreme up to the curzon line and the borders of bessarabia '' ( italics added )
this is a penetrating description of our post-war illusion , which applied to other areas than east europe .
we expected , in short , that most of the world would make itself over in our image and that it would be relatively simple , from such a position , to deal with the localized aberrations of the soviet union '' .
neither our military , our economic nor our ideological power reached far enough '' to determine the fate of east europe .
here is the best short explanation of the origins of the cold war that has been written .
then china promptly went communist , and mr. truman had to fight the interminable korean war for the democratization of korea before we learned how far our writ did `` reach in asia '' .
of heavy arms expenditures and constant danger of another world war had to ensue before the united states could bring itself to accept the two chief results of world war 2 , -- communist control of east europe and china -- a new balance of power .
yet , in summarizing a series of careful essays on the yalta conference , forrest pogue could find no basis for yalta becoming `` a symbol for betrayal and a shibboleth for the opponents of roosevelt and international cooperation '' .
an analysis of the election falls naturally in four parts .
preparation began slightly more than a year after independence with the first steps to organize rural communes .
the second major aspect of the election is the actual procedure of registration , nomination and voting .
however , the regionally differentiated results , which appear below in tables , are interesting evidence of the problems of developing self-government under even the most favorable circumstances .
the electoral procedure prevented the ready identification of party affiliation , but all vitally interested parties , including the government itself , were busily engaged in determining the party identifications of all successful candidates the month following the elections .
elections have figured prominently in nearly every government program and official address since independence .
king muhammad 5 , was known to be most sympathetic to the formation of local self-government and made the first firm promise of elections on may day , 1957 .
since the complicated process of establishing new communes and reviewing the rudimentary plan left by the french did not even begin until the fall of 1957 , this goal appears somewhat ambitious .
until the charter of liberties was issued in the fall of 1958 , there were no guarantees of the right to assemble or to organize for political purposes .
there were rumors that the ministry of the interior favored an arbitrary , `` non-political '' process , which were indirectly affirmed when the king personally intervened in the planned meetings .
the ifni crisis in the fall of 1957 postponed further consideration of elections , but french consultants were called in and notices of further investigation appeared from time to time .
although the government was probably prepared for elections by mid-1958 , the first decision was no doubt made more difficult as party strife multiplied .
the parties were on the whole unprepared for elections , while the people were still experiencing post-independence let-down and suffering the after-effects of poor harvests in 1957 .
they figured prominently in the balafrej government of may , 1958 , which the king was reportedly determined to keep in office until elections could be held .
by december , 1958 , when ' abdallah ibrahim became president of the council , elections had even greater importance .
to minimize the chances of repeating the balafrej debacle the ibrahim government was formed .
by this time there is little doubt but what election plans were complete .
from the rather tortuous history of electoral planning in morocco an important point emerges concerning the first elections in a developing country and evaluating their results .
in the absence of a reservoir of political consensus each organized political group hopes that the elections will give them new prominence , but in a system where there is as yet no place for the less prominent .
those in power tend to procrastinate and even to repudiate the electoral process .
at the central level the scrutin uninominal voting system was selected over some form of the scrutin de liste system , even though the latter had been recommended by duverger and favored by all political parties .
although the elections were for local officials , it was not necessary to conduct the elections so as to prevent parties from publicly identifying their candidates .
both parties and the ministry of the interior were busily at work after the elections trying to unearth the political affiliations of the successful candidates and , thereby , give the elections a confidential but known degree of national political significance .
the general setting of the moroccan election may also encourage the deterioration of local party organization .
interesting evidence can be found in the results of the chamber of commerce elections , which took place three weeks before national elections .
as the more conservative group with strong backing from wealthy businessmen , the u.m.c.i.a. was generally favored against the more progressive , labor-based u.n.f.p. .
the local istiqlal and u.m.c.i.a. offices did not campaign and lost heavily .
the chamber of commerce elections were , of course , an important event in the preparation for rural commune elections .
the istiqlal found that the spontaneous solidarity of the independence struggle was not easily transposed to the more concrete , precise problems of internal politics .
a second major point of this essay is to examine the formal arrangements for the elections .
furthermore , the problems and solutions devised in the electoral experiences of the rapidly changing countries are often of comparative value and essential to evaluating election results .
as the background discussion indicated there were frequently expressed doubts that a government dominated by either party could fairly administer elections .
the bulk of the preparation had , of course , proceeded under the supervision of the ministry of the interior , whose officials are barred from party activity and probably generally disinterested in party politics .
centrally , however , the administrative problem was more complex and the sheer prestige of office was very likely an unfair advantage .
although the monarch had frequently asserted that the elections were to be without party significance , his action was an implicit admission that party identifications were a factor .
since the details of the elections were settled the change of government had no direct effect on the technical aspects of the elections , and may have been more important as an indication of royal displeasure with the u.n.f.p.
voting preparations began in the fall of 1959 , although the actual demarcation and planning for the rural communes was completed in 1958 .
voter registration began in late november 1959 and continued until early january , 1960 .
periodic bulletins of the accomplishment in each province made the registration process into a kind of competition among provincial officials .
the qualifications to vote were kept very simple .
there were liberal provisions for dispensation where documents or records were lacking .
the registration figures given in table 2 must be interpreted with caution since the estimate for eligible electors were made without the benefit of a reliable census .
some vocational training schools provide such training , but the current need exceeds the facilities .
the present federal program of vocational education began in 1917 with the passage of the smith-hughes act , which provided a continuing annual appropriation of $7 million to support , on a matching basis , state-administered programs of vocational education in agriculture , trades , industrial skills and home economics .
the george-barden act of 1946 raised the previous increases in annual authorizations to $29 million in addition to the $7 million under the smith act .
the latest major change in this program was introduced by the national defense education act of 1958 , title 8 , of which amended the george-barden act .
the federal program of vocational education merely provides financial aid to encourage the establishment of vocational education programs in public schools .
even the states remain primarily in an assisting role , providing leadership and teacher training .
the state may decide to encourage local programs by paying half of the cost , or the state may require the local district to bear this half or some part of it .
today , federal funds account for only one-fifth of the nation's expenditures for vocational education .
national defense considerations have been the major reason behind most federal training expenditures in recent decades .
the total cost of the five-year program was $297 million .
no comparable measures are available of enrollments and expenditures for private vocational education training .
in addition , many large corporations operate their own formal training programs .
most skilled industrial workers , nevertheless , still acquire their skills outside of formal training institutions .
there is little doubt that the students benefit from vocational education .
vocational educators do not claim that school training alone makes skilled workers , but it provides the essential groundwork for developing skills .
in arkansas fewer than 6 per cent of the high schools offer trade and industrial courses .
an important recent trend is the development of area vocational schools .
these schools are intended to provide the facilities and specialized curriculum that would not be possible for very small school districts .
courses are provided mainly for post high school day programs ; ;
the title 8 , program of the national defense education act of 1958 was a great spur to this trend toward area schools .
they were operating in 10 of the 17 major areas of chronic labor surplus and in 10 of the minor areas .
relation to new industry
the major training need of a new industrial plant is a short period of pre-employment training for a large number of semi-skilled machine operators .
a prospective industry also may be interested in the long-run advantages of training programs in the area to supply future skilled workers and provide supplementary extension courses for its employees .
additional courses can readily be added and special cooperative programs worked out with any new industry if the basic facilities , staff and program are in being .
few states make effective use of their existing vocational education programs or funds for the purpose of attracting new industry .
local focus of programs
this weakness is not unique to labor surplus areas , for it is inherent in the system of local school districts in this country .
all the manuals for setting up vocational courses stress the importance of first making a local survey of skill needs , of estimating the growth of local jobs , and of consulting with local employers on the types of courses and their content .
local jobs can be seen and counted , while opportunities elsewhere are regarded as more hypothetical .
the u. s. office of education continues to stress local surveys rather than national surveys .
elaborate studies have been made in labor surplus areas in order to identify sufficient numbers of local job vacancies and future replacement needs for certain skills to justify training programs for those skills .
moreover , the current information on what types of training are needed and possible is too limited and fragmentary .
much of the available information comes not from the federal government but from an exchange of experiences among states .
state and local agencies in the vocational education field must be encouraged to adopt a wider outlook on future job opportunities .
a related question is whether unemployed workers can be motivated to take the training provided .
however , there always is some limit to the numbers who will spend the time and effort to acquire training .
a training program in a depressed area may have few enrollees unless there is some apparent prospect for better employment opportunities afterwards , and the prospect may be poor if the training is aimed solely at jobs in the local community .
another problem is who will pay for the training .
programs usually are expanded only when outside funds are available or local business leaders demand it .
state governments have been taking the lead in establishing area vocational schools , but their focus is still on area job opportunities .
if only state funds were used to pay for the vocational education , it could be argued that the state should not have to bear the cost of vocational training which would benefit employers in other states .
such training would increase the tendency of workers to leave the area and find jobs in other localities .
this probably would require some support for subsistence as well as for tuition , but the total would be no greater than for the proposals of unemployment compensation or a youth conservation corps .
a program of financial assistance would permit placing emphasis on the national interest in training highly skilled labor .
such specialized training institutions could be located near the most rapidly growing industries , where the equipment and job experience exist and where the future employment opportunities are located .
personal financial assistance would enable more emphasis to be placed on the interests of the individual .
but briefly , the topping configuration must be examined for its inferences .
and then the application of the count rules to the width ( horizontally ) of the configuration gives us an intial estimate of the probable depth of the decline .
this expectation is what really `` sold '' point and figure .
experience will show that only the vaguest generalities apply , and in fine , these merely dwell upon a relationship between the durations and intensities of events .
the advantages and disadvantages of these two types of charting , bar charting and point and figure charting , remain the subject of fairly good-natured litigation among their respective professional advocates , with both methods enjoying in common , one irrevocable merit .
even if we strip their respective claims to the barest minimum , the `` odds '' still favor them both , for the trend in effect is always more likely to continue than to reverse .
the foregoing have been methods of charting prices , but now let us look at some of the other indices that are customarily charted , and which are looked to for their forecasting abilities .
the search for forecasting formulae is ceaseless .
the theory behind this is , of course , fundamentalist in character .
we now know that things rarely ever work out in such cut-and-dried fashion , and that car loadings , while perhaps interesting enough , are nevertheless not the magic formula that will always turn before stock prices turn .
it recalls to mind the quest of olden times for the fountain of youth , a quest heavily invested in , during the days of wooden ships .
the quest offers careers .
there sit men who make moving averages of weekly volume , monthly averages of price-earnings ratios , ratios of the number of advances to the number of declines , ratios of an individual stock's performance to overall market performance , ratios of rising price volume to falling price volume , odd-lot indices , and what not .
and along chicago's west jackson boulevard , la salle street , and around the merchandise mart plaza there sit men who chart crop reports , who divide the number of reported lady-bugs by the number of reported green-bugs , and the number of hogs by the amount of corn .
all these things and countless more enter into their calculations , and yet , the enchanting index remains non-forthcoming .
the markets are far too subtle , and the last word in these endeavors will doubtless never be written , for the enchanting index is about as nebulous as the fountain of youth .
we mentioned odd-lot indices a few paragraphs ago .
a stock transaction for less than a hundred shares is executed via a special odd-lot broker on the floor of the exchange .
according to the theory underlying odd-lot indices , the trader who trades odd lots is most likely a small trader , one who can't afford to trade round lots .
falling most easily prey to an adverse market movement , for this rank of traders can least afford to lose , virtually anything the odd-lot traders do , marketwise , is taken to exemplify the `` wrong '' thing to do .
odd-lot index observers then make graphs of the data according to their particular statistical recipe .
the particular recipe is a matter of individual taste .
towards the end of an intermediate or major rise , while the top is forming on the price chart , it is frequently observed that the odd-lot buying increases sharply .
similarly , at the opposite end of the market cycle , towards the end of an intermediate or major decline , usually while the bottom is being formed on the price chart , it is characteristic that an increase is noticed in odd-lot selling again alerting the chartist that a bottom is becoming a greater likelihood .
while it had long been known in general , that `` the public is always wrong '' , the use of odd-lot indices now puts the adage on a statistical basis .
which came first ? ?
and the converse at bottoms .
we have been using the word `` public '' in quotation marks , that is , in its vernacular connotation with reference to the odd-lot index theory .
and while all concerned are members of the literal public , somewhat less than all concerned , although still a majority , form the quotation marked `` public '' .
this element is often called `` strong hands '' .
they initiate campaigns , so to speak , even if this initiation is diffused among them , and their concerted action only psychologically organized .
weak hands react .
weak hands ask , what is going on ? ?
they are able to sit more patiently with what they have bought .
certain badly disillusioned market critics are often apt to feel that there is something somehow unfair , dirty , or even thoroughly criminal about this interplay of competitive forces .
try to imagine a market in which only a minority of traders would lose , and the majority would make consistent profits .
moreover , the taunt concerning the `` sophisticated '' echelon and its alleged erudition is put to test during every campaign , and accrues only upon results ; ;
it quite often happens that campaigns go askew , resulting in a most unflattering deterioration of strong hands into played-out hands , just as a member of a former campaign's `` public '' may emerge flatteringly `` right '' the next time .
the study of odd-lot indices is somehow akin to the spectacle of a man trying to outfox his own shadow , what with all observers trying to get on the side of the `` few '' at the same time .
it has to , by virtue of the very dictionary definition of the word `` few '' .
and the few must win what the many lose , for the opposite arrangement would not support markets as we know them at all , and is , in fact , unimaginable .
anyone still doubting that this is the only way markets can be is invited to try to imagine a market wherein the majority consistently wins what the minority loses .
if you got too many people investing by this method , their operations would begin to affect stock prices , and thus throw the charts off .
mr. alexander h. wheelan's study helps in point and figure technique tells the readers : `` we assure you that the total number of people using this method of market analysis is a very small portion of the sum total of those operating in the securities and commodities markets '' .
nevertheless , all theories and techniques lead but to one of two possible modes of expression , if they lead to a market committment at all .
thus while his theory or technique may not be oversubscribed , it is commonplace for bullish and bearish positions to become temporarily over-subscribed .
chapter 6 , more methods
the purpose set forth at the beginning of this book was first to introduce the reader to a general background knowledge of the various types and capabilities of the forecasting methods already in use , so that he might then be in a position to evaluate for himself the validity of the rather astonishing empirical correlation that is to follow , and to appraise the forecast that its interpretation suggests for the future of farm prices over the years immediately ahead .
by and large , what happens to business as a whole will govern the relationship between demand and supply conditions in the capital markets and will thus determine interest rates .
nineteen-sixty has been a baffling year for analysts of general business activity .
the tendency for general business activity to soften somewhat is becoming more evident .
it is difficult to see any powerful sources of strength on the horizon at this time which would give the economy a new upward thrust .
in earlier business cycles , when this occurred the country usually experienced a sharp upturn in residential construction as mortgage financing became easier to obtain .
these signs are the inventories of unsold houses in some areas of the country and the moderate rise in vacancy rates for apartments ( 7.6% in september ) .
the 2% increase in retail sales in october to a 4-month high is encouraging in this connection as well as the most recent consumer survey by the national industrial conference board , which shows a decided pickup in consumer spending plans .
the recovery will probably be sparked by a rising rate of housing starts next spring in response to more readily available mortgage credit , as well as by an expansion of government spending , well sustained consumer spending , and some rebuilding of business inventories .
what does the general business outlook suggest about the trend of long-term rates in 1961 ? ?
however , as witnessed by the large corporate bond calendar at present , as well as the record amount of municipal bond issues approved by voters , the over-all demands for capital funds seem likely to remain high , so that any downward pressure on rates from reduced demand should not be great .
if the trend of general business activity follows the pattern suggested here , we are likely to see additional steps by the federal reserve authorities to ease the availability of credit .
however , the monetary authorities will continue to be required to pay attention to the consequences of their actions with respect to our international balance of payments position and the outflow of gold , as well as with regard to avoiding the creation of excessive liquidity in the economy , which would delay the effectiveness of monetary policy measures in the next expansion phase of the business cycle .
one of the most intriguing questions is whether the recent departures of the federal reserve authorities from confining their open market operations to treasury bills will spread into longer-term government securities in the next few months .
the principle of `` bills only '' , or `` bills preferably '' , seems so strongly accepted by the federal reserve that it is difficult to envision conditions which would persuade the authorities to depart radically from it by extending their open market purchases regularly into long-term government securities .
by the end of the spring of 1961 , assuming that a general business recovery gets under way , interest rates should begin to edge upward again , depending upon the vigor of the recovery and the determination with which the monetary authorities move to restrain credit availability .
it is pertinent to ask the question : has the long upswing of interest rates during the past 15 years just about run its course , and are we now entering a period in which both capital market forces and federal policies will produce a prolonged decline of interest rates ? ?
five basic forces
recent events in the general assembly of the united nations confirm that the cold war will remain with us , and probably intensify , for the foreseeable future .
we are just beginning the task of trying to win or maintain the friendship of the new african nations against the ruthless competition of the communist bloc .
moreover , it is likely that federal policies aimed at stimulating a faster rate of economic growth of the country , to keep ahead of the communist countries and to demonstrate that our free economic system is better than theirs , will lead to rising federal spending in certain areas such as education , housing , medical aid , and the like .
( 2 )
according to the latest projections of the bureau of the census , the annual rate of household formations will increase for the next 20 years .
during the seventies the projections show a more pronounced rise to an annual rate of 1,338,000 in the second half of that decade .
however , the impact of a rising rate of household formation this decade should not be exaggerated .
( 3 )
this is an area in which there is still a large backlog of demand .
here would be a powerful force for raising business activity .
it seems likely that with the three preceding forces at play , the rate of business and industrial plant and equipment expenditures should continue to move upward from the levels of the fifties .
( 5 )
there is some clear-cut evidence of this .
indeed , the failure of home-building as a whole to respond this year to somewhat greater availability of mortgage financing , and the increasing reports of pockets of unsold homes and rising vacancy rates in apartment buildings , may also signal in part that the lush days of big backlog demand for housing are reaching an end .
the huge backlog of demand which was evident in the first decade and a half after the war was fed by liquid assets accumulated by the public during the war , and even more so by the easier and easier credit in the consumer loan and home loan fields .
this is not to say that the level of consumer expenditures will not continue to rise in the sixties .
markets should become more competitive as consumers become more selective .
accordingly , during the sixties our national economy is likely to grow at as fast a rate as in the fifties and , in the process , to require enormous amounts of capital funds .
the purpose of this paper is to analyze one possible force which has not been treated in the literature , but which we believe makes a significant contribution to explaining the wage-price behavior of a few very important industries .
indeed , the apparent stiffening of the industry's attitude in the recent steel strike has a direct explanation in terms of the model here presented .
where the industry's product price has been kept below the `` profit-maximizing '' and `` entry-limiting '' prices due to fears of public reaction , the profit seeking producers have an interest in offering little real resistance to wage demands .
in order to focus clearly upon the operation of this one force , which we may call the effect of `` public-limit pricing '' on `` key '' wage bargains , we deliberately simplify the model by abstracting from other forces , such as union power , which may be relevant in an actual situation .
part 1 , below describes this abstract model by spelling out its assumptions .
part 3 , discusses the empirical relevance and policy implications of the conclusions .
the mathematical appendix presents the rigorous argument , but is best read after part 1 , in order that the assumptions underlying the equations may be explicit .
a .
the industry with which this model is concerned is a basic industry , producing a substantial share of gross national product .
for the purposes of setting the product price , the industry behaves as a single entity .
b .
we are concerned with aggregate demand for the industry's product .
in any given time period , the aggregate demand for the industry's product is determined by two things : the price charged by the industry , and the level of aj .
( we abstract here from technological progress and assume that prices of all other products change proportionately .
the form of the industry demand function is one which makes quantity demanded vary inversely with the product price , and vary directly with the level of aj .
industry product price policy
because of its importance , and because the lack of price competition is well recognized , the industry is under considerable public pressure not to raise its price any more than could be justified by cost increases .
for the industry of this model , the effect of such public pressures in the past has been to hold the price well below the short-run profit-maximizing price ( given the wage rate and the level of gnp ) , and even below the entry-limited price ( but not below average cost ) .
thus , if public pressure sets the effective limit to the price that the industry may charge , this pressure is itself a function of the wage rate .
in such circumstances , it may well be to the advantage of the industry to allow an increase in the basic wage rate .
the entry-limiting price will also be raised for potential domestic competition , but unless general inflation permits profit margins to increase proportionately throughout the economy , we might expect the public-limit price to approach the entry-limit price .
where this approach becomes critical , the industry can be expected to put much emphasis on this as evidence of its sincerity in `` resisting '' the wage pressures of a powerful union , requesting tariff relief after it has `` reluctantly '' acceded to the union pressure .
the extent to which the public-limit price is raised by a given increase in the basic wage rate is itself a function of three things : the passage of time , the level of gnp , and the size of the wage increase .
the industry may deliberately take a strike , not to put pressure on the union , but in order to `` educate '' the government and the customers of the industry .
they become increasingly willing to accept the price increase that the industry claims the wage bargain would entail .
the simple passage of an additional eleven months' time makes the second 3% boost more acceptable .
notice , however , that the passage of time does not permit the raising of prices per se , without an accompanying wage increase .
this is not extended to anticipated levels of gnp , however -- only the current level of gnp affects the public pressure against wage-price increases .
d .
we assume that average total unit cost in the relevant region of operation is constant with respect to quantity produced ( the average cost curve is horizontal , and therefore is identical with the marginal cost curve ) , and is the same for every firm ( and therefore for the industry ) .
as we have noted , however , we are abstracting from changes in all determinants of this level except for changes in the wage rate .
e .
the single union which faces the industry does not restrict its membership , and there is an adequate supply of labor available to the firms of the industry at the going wage rate .
the union vigorously demands wage increases from productivity increases , and wage increases to offset cost-of-living increases , but we abstract from these forces here .
productivity is something of an amorphous concept and the amount of productivity increase in a given time period is not even well known to the industry , much less to the union or to the public .
the existence of conflict and of vigorous union demand for an increase in money wages does not contradict the assumption that the union is willing to settle for cost-of-living and productivity-share increases as distinct from a cost-raising increase in the basic wage rate .
for internal political reasons , the union asks for ( and accepts ) increases in the basic wage rate , and would vigorously oppose a reduction in this rate , but the adjustment of the basic wage rate upwards is essentially up to the discretion of the companies of the industry .
however , it is not known to either the union or the public precisely how much of a cost increase is caused by a given change in the basic wage rate , although the companies are presumed to have reliable estimates of this magnitude .
thus , for non-negative changes in the basic wage rate , the industry becomes the active wage-setter , since any increase in the basic wage rate can occur only by reason of industry acquiescence .
from this presumption it is an easy step to the conclusion that any observed increases in the basic wage rate must be due to union behavior different and more aggressive than assumed in our model .
we do so by disproving the presumption on which it is based .
it is convenient to assume that the union-industry contract is of one year's duration .
several factors contributed to this change .
here in 1815 the great nations assembled to legislate not merely for europe , but for the world .
international law had to fit the conditions of europe , and nothing that could not fit this system , or the interests of the great european nations collectively , could possibly emerge as law in any meaningful sense .
second , it had to be compatible with the value system that they shared .
it was not always easy to develop theory and doctrine which would square the two conditions .
but there was no pressing need to maintain these same standards with regard to most of the rest of the world .
political interference in africa and asia and even in latin america ( though limited in latin america by the special interest of the united states as expressed in the monroe doctrine , itself from the outset related to european politics and long dependent upon the `` balance of power '' system in europe ) was necessary in order to preserve both common economic values and the european `` balance '' itself .
more doubtful , but possible , ( with an assist from the north ) was the neutralization of the latin american countries ; ;
this europeanization of the law was made explicit by a number of 19th century scholars .
kent and story , the great early american scholars , repeatedly made use of this phrase , or of `` christian nations '' , which is a substantial equivalent .
of course it had always been of european origin in fact , but it had maintained a universal outlook under the natural law theory .
the european customs on which international law was based were to become , by force and fiat , the customs that others were to accept as law if they were to join this community as sovereign states .
they must do something with the acquiescence of the latter , or some of them , which amounts to an acceptance of the law in its entirety beyond all possibility of misconstruction '' .
a number of other nineteenth-century developments contributed to the transmutation of the law of nations into international law ; ;
the difference is important , for although the older law of nations did cover relationships among sovereigns , this was by no means its exclusive domain .
the theory of international law , which in the nineteenth century became common to virtually all writers in europe and america , broke this unity and this universality .
no longer did the sovereign look to the law of nations to determine what he ought to do ; ;
to appreciate this development , we must relate it to other aspects of nineteenth-century philosophy .
national identification was not new , but it was accelerating in intensity and scope throughout europe as new unifications occurred .
national identification was reflected jurisprudentially in law theories which incorporated this hegelian abstraction and saw law , domestic and international , simply as its formal reflection .
a state , the highest form of human organization in fact and theory , could be subjected to law only by a manifestation of self-will , or consent .
he no longer sought to find the law ; ;
he could be subjected to law only because he agreed to be .
hidden behind hegelian abstractions were more practical reasons for a changing jurisprudence .
increased participation in politics and the demands of various groups for status and recognition had dramatic effects upon law institutions .
law became a conscious process , something more than simply doing justice and looking to local customs and a common morality for applicable norms .
the old way of doing things , which depended on a relatively stable community with stable ideas dealing with familiar situations , was no longer adequate to the task .
codification was followed in all countries by a growing amount of legislation , some changing and adjusting the older law , much dealing with entirely new situations .
whereas the eighteenth century had been a time in which man sought justice , the nineteenth and twentieth have been centuries in which men are satisfied with law .
in municipal systems we tend to view what is called positivism as fundamentally a movement to democratize policy by increasing the power of parliament -- the elected representatives -- at the expense of the more conservative judiciary .
it is true that , initially , the task was to remove restrictions that , it was thought , inhibited the free flow of money , goods , and labor ; ;
law was seen as an emanation of the `` sovereign will '' .
it was , too , an optimistic philosophy , and , though it separated law from morality , it was by no means an immoral or amoral one .
the theory did not require , though it unfortunately might acquire , a hegelian mystique .
it was not opposed to either justice or morality ; ;
particularly was this true as laissez-faire capitalism became the dominant credo of western society .
that old customs which inhibited trade be abrogated ; ;
that obligations of status that were inconsistent with the new politics and the new economics be done away with .
indeed , contract was the dominant legal theme of the century , the touchstone of the free society .
business organization -- the corporation -- was analyzed in contractual terms ; ;
even marriage and the family was seen as a contractual arrangement .
in fact , some -- anzilotti is the principle example -- went so far as to say that all international law could be traced to the single legal norm , pacta sunt servanda .
in the first place the new doctrine brought a formal separation of international from municipal law , rejecting the earlier view that both were parts of a universal legal system .
admiralty law , the law merchant , and the host of problems which arise in private litigation because of some contact with a foreign country were all severed from the older law of nations and made dependent on the several national laws .
states were free to enact , within broad , though ( perhaps ) determinate limits , their own rules as to the application of foreign law by their courts , to vary the law merchant , and to enact legislation with regard to many claims arising on the high seas .
mr. justice black was one of the minority that rested on the article 1 , power .
if this seems arbitrary , its effect was to treat citizens of the district of columbia equally with citizens of the states -- at the expense of expanding a troublesome jurisdiction .
for almost a hundred years we relied upon state courts ( subject to review by the supreme court ) for the protection of most rights arising under national law .
one purpose of the change was to attain sympathetic enforcement of rights insured by the civil war amendments against state interference .
an amendment , presumably designed to deal with the problems of newly freed slaves , became a `` laissez-faire '' limitation upon state economic policy .
congress reacted with a series of measures modifying in various ways what it had granted in 1875 .
such legislation was clarified and extended from time to time thereafter .
the essential ineffectiveness of these measures resulted in 1934 in substantial elimination of federal jurisdiction to enjoin state public utility rate orders .
this saved for state adjudication , in the first instance , the two major areas where federal injunctions had been most obnoxious , but other areas remained vulnerable .
drawing upon the traditional discretion of the chancellor , mr. justice holmes introduced a series of self-imposed judicial restraints that culminated in mr. justice frankfurter's famous doctrine of abstention .
the classic case is railroad commission v. pullman .
its enforcement was enjoined by a federal trial court .
an alternative was found in the vagueness of state law as to whether the offending order had in fact been authorized .
but it is crucial that here , unlike burford , the trial court was ordered to retain the case until the state courts had had a reasonable opportunity to settle the state-law question .
temporary abstention , i.e. , postponement , is one thing ; ;
to the extent that the jurisdictional principle of 1875 stands unmodified by subsequent legislation , federal equitable relief against state action must be available -- or so it seems to mr. justice frankfurter .
the railroad , claiming deprivation of property without due process of law , sought injunctive relief .
this in the name of equitable discretion .
but they objected vigorously to the proposition that federal courts may refuse to exercise jurisdiction conferred in a valid act of congress :
by these measures , congress , so the court ( in effect ) now decides , gave not only needless but inadequate relief , since it now appears that the federal courts have inherent power to sterilize the act of 1875 against all proceedings challenging local regulation '' .
the taft-hartley act gave the federal courts jurisdiction over `` suits for violation of contracts between an employer and a labor organization representing employees in an industry affecting commerce '' .
it does not establish any law ( rights ) for the federal judges to enforce .
the court held that congress had intended the federal judiciary to `` fashion '' an appropriate law of labor-management contracts .
the lincoln mills decision authorizes a whole new body of federal `` common law '' which , as mr. justice frankfurter pointed out in dissent , leads to one of the following `` incongruities '' : `` ( ( 1 ) conflict in federal and state court interpretations of collective bargaining agreements ; ;
or ( 3 ) exclusion of state court jurisdiction over these matters '' .
with a few exceptions , the lawmakers seemed unaware of the technical problems of federal jurisdiction involved -- to say nothing of the delegation of lawmaking power to judges .
this would satisfy what presumably was congress' major purpose -- the suability of unions .
( as we have seen , the erie and york decisions require federal courts in diversity cases to follow state decisional rules .
if congress wants to displace the states from areas which they have customarily occupied , let it do so knowingly and explicitly .
does lincoln mills suggest that if congress granted jurisdiction over interstate divorce cases , the federal courts would be authorized to fashion a national law for the dissolution of marriages ? ?
congress has not clearly defined the bounds between state and federal court competence .
a careful student has suggested that `` in any new revision ( of the judicial code ) the legislators would do well to remember that the allocation of power to the federal courts should be limited to those matters in which their expertise in federal law might be used , leaving to the state judiciaries the primary obligation of pronouncing state law '' .
the same rule of specialization and division of labor guides him in the fela certiorari cases , in the administrative law area , and indeed in the whole realm of judicial review .
he will not be `` fooled by technicalities '' .
with few exceptions , congress has not given federal courts exclusive authority to enforce rights arising under federal law .
to insure uniformity in the meaning of national law , however , state interpretations are subject to supreme court review .
the result , of course , would be that federal law inevitably would mean different things in different states .
we consider here only a few of many problems involved in this crucial federal-state relationship .
subject to certain constitutional restraints in favor of fair trials , each level of government is free to devise its own judicial procedures .
a similar canon applies to those who press state claims in federal tribunals , e.g. , in diversity cases .
in other words the burden of pleading clearly rested upon the pleader by state law .
mr. justice black led a reversing majority : `` strict local rules of pleading cannot be used to impose unnecessary burdens upon rights of recovery authorized by federal law '' .
justices frankfurter and jackson dissented : `` one state may cherish formalities more than another , one state may be more responsive than another to procedural reforms .
federal law , though invoked in a state court , delimits the federal claim -- defines what gives a right to recovery and what goes to prove it .
another problem in the area of federal-state relationships is this : what constitutes reversible error in a state decision ? ?
the conduct in question was a speech .
'' for present purposes it may be assumed that this charge so narrowly limited speech as to violate the federal constitution .
that is , he did not claim in any of the four courts through which his case progressed that the jury charge had denied him any federal right .
or allowing a deduction for payment of certain obligations of a transferor assumed in the reorganization ( section 381(c)(16) ) , but not a deduction for theft losses sustained by a transferor prior to a reorganization but discovered after it ; ;
or allowing survival of a dividend carryover to a personal holding company ( section 381(c)(14) ) , but not carryover of excess tax credits for foreign taxes ? ?
there does not seem to be any reasonable basis for distinction either in terms of the nature of the tax attribute or in terms of tax-avoidance possibilities .
to this extent some stretching of the literal meaning of the committee report seems justified , since the literal meaning conflicts with the clear implication , if not the language , of the statute .
such an interpretation could not be justified by a construction of the statute alone ; ;
and in at least one instance , involving refund claims , it might be contrary to another provision of the united states code .
section 203 of the united states code voids an assignment of a claim against the government unless made after it has been allowed , the amount due has been ascertained , and a warrant for its payment has been issued .
a clearly recognized exception is a statutory merger or consolidation .
the court said the purpose of the section was principally to spare the government the embarrassment and trouble of dealing with several parties , one of them a stranger to the claim , and to prevent traffic in claims , particularly tenuous claims , against the government .
furthermore , congress could not be presumed to have intended to obstruct mergers approved by the states .
exceptions are often classified as transfers by `` operation of law '' .
although it is in some ways comparable to a voluntary sale of assets for cash , to which section 203 quite clearly applies , the courts and treasury have held that acquiring corporations in several types of non-taxable reorganizations may sue for refund of taxes paid by transferors .
holding the final corporation entitled to sue on the claim , the court cited the seaboard , novo trading , and roomberg cases for the proposition that `` transfers by operation of law or in conjunction with changes of corporate structure are not assignments prohibited by the statute '' .
the anti-assignment statute was held not to prevent the american corporation from suing for a refund of taxes paid by the british corporation .
the court , nevertheless , relied on the seaboard case and also mentioned that the shareholders of the two corporations were the same .
the treasury arrives at substantially the same conclusion , but skirts the problem of section 203 of the united states code .
proper evidence of the liquidation and succession must also be filed .
if the succession is not of record , all documents relating to such succession , properly certified , are required .
the ruling would not , however , apply to an acquisition of assets for cash .
the ruling suggests also that it applies to either a statutory or contractual reorganization .
in a b reorganization , followed by a section 332 liquidation , those cases which hold that section 203 is inapplicable to transfers in liquidation appear to permit the successor corporation to sue for refund of taxes paid by the transferor .
these results appear sound .
the cases have allowed transfer of claims if beneficial ownership is not changed .
section 381(a) applies only to a transfer by liquidation of a subsidiary owned to the extent of at least 80 per cent , a statutory merger or consolidation , an acquisition of substantially all a corporation's assets solely in exchange for voting stock , or a change of identity , form , or place of organization .
in these circumstances the possibility of multiple or conflicting claims is exceedingly remote .
nor is it at all likely that a `` desperate '' claim against the government will be assigned on a contingent-fee basis in the guise of a tax-free reorganization .
if such an unlikely transaction were to take place , it would more logically be accomplished by a stock purchase , followed by the prosecution of the claim by the wholly-owned subsidiary , followed by liquidation .
it appears , then , that although the matter is not dealt with in section 381(c) , a successor corporation in a reorganization of a type specified in section 381(a) is entitled to sue for refund of taxes paid by a transferor corporation .
the successor corporations have been held entitled to sue on such claims .
there are certain tax attributes of a corporation whose nature and effect might depend on the facts of the particular reorganization involved .
the parent of a group filing consolidated returns might be treated as the same corporation following a reorganization defined in section 368(a)(1) , but as a different corporation for this purpose after a tax-free acquisition by another corporation which had not , for example , elected to file consolidated returns with its own subsidiaries .
other sections of the 1954 internal revenue code provide for survival of certain of a transferor's tax attributes following a tax-free reorganization .
section 169 permits a person acquiring grain-storage facilities to elect to continue amortization over a 60-month period .
attributes similar to a loss carryover .
for example , suppose another excess profits tax similar to prior laws is enacted , providing for carryover of excess profits credits .
it is an averaging device intended to ease the tax burden of fluctuating income ; ;
under the 1939 code this item was permitted to survive a tax-free reorganization in the stanton brewery case , but only over the dissent of judge learned hand , who wrote the majority opinion in the sansome case , a leading case requiring carryover of earnings and profits in a non-taxable reorganization .
with respect to this type of item , one might properly apply the language of the committee report , quoted above , which cautions against using section 381 as a basis for treating other tax attributes not mentioned therein .
probably the primary reason for special treatment of a net operating loss carryover is the unique opportunity it presents for tax avoidance .
reasons for selecting mail questionnaire method
while the method of interviewing a small number of companies was appealing because of the opportunity it might have furnished to probe fully the reasons and circumstances of a company's practices and opinions , it also involved the risk of paying undue attention to the unique and peculiar problems of just a few individual companies .
it was also hoped that responses to a mail questionnaire would suggest fruitful inquiries that might be made in subsequent studies of a more detailed nature .
there is the danger that the questions will mean different things to different respondents .
a respondent may want to make alternative answers because he does not know the precise circumstances assumed in the question .
is the respondent making a recommendation for his own benefit , for the benefit of his industry , for the benefit of a specific government department or service , for the benefit of the defense program , for the benefit of small business , or for the benefit of the taxpayers ? ?
finally , there is the question of how strongly an expressed opinion is held -- whether it is a firm opinion or one that the respondent favors only slightly over the alternatives .
under the circumstances , however , the team considered it would provide the most useful information at this point .
b .
the questionnaire was designed to elicit three types of information : ( 1 ) the facts regarding certain characteristics of the respondents , including their experience with , and interest in , securing defense business ; ;
and ( 3 ) the attitudes and opinions of the respondents concerning bidding procedures and the methods of awarding defense contracts .
the major sections of the questionnaire ( see appendix b ) are devoted to the following : 1 .
characteristics of defense sales activities ( part b of the questionnaire ) 3 .
respondents' practices in participating in negotiated bidding for defense purposes ( part d of the questionnaire ) 5 .
respondents' opinions regarding negotiated bidding ( part f of the questionnaire ) 7 .
the questionnaire provided a place for the name of the respondent but stated that identification of the respondent was optional .
it is interesting to note that 75 per cent of those who returned the questionnaire identified themselves .
preparation and pretest of the questionnaire
in june , 1960 , an early draft of the questionnaire , along with a cover letter , was mailed to fourteen companies in the state of washington .
this test resulted in further revisions of the questionnaire .
accordingly , another test of the questionaire was made .
fifty of the 100 firms were selected on a random basis from 3,500 names submitted by member companies of the aerospace industries association ( aia list ) and fifty were selected in a similar manner from a list of 1,500 names compiled by the research team from the thomas register ( tr list ) .
ten days after the questionnaires were mailed , follow-up airmail postcards were sent urging those companies which had not yet returned their questionnaires to do so at once .
the responses were carefully checked for obvious errors in the answers or for questions that were apparently not understood by the respondent .
d .
the objective of the study was to determine the opinions and practices of small firms selling to defense programs .
three lists of companies were made and used in the study .
the primary consideration in the compilation of this list was convenience in discussing the questionnaire with company officers .
these names were secured from member companies by the association from the forty-four sources listed in appendix aj .
where possible , the name of an executive was supplied along with the company name and address .
there was further elimination of all companies that were not accompanied by the name of a responsible company executive .
by these steps the final aia list was reduced from 8,000 to 3,500 .
it was compiled as a control sample to determine if the opinions and practices of companies on the lists submitted by the members of the aerospace industries association were materially different from those of other small firms selling to defense programs .
the fact that the aerospace industries association members whose lists were used did not comprise all firms engaged in defense programs .
the fact that companies on the aia lists were already participating in the defense program because of the manner of their selection .
3 .
the control sample was selected by taking the bottom name of each of the two columns of names on each page of the alphabetical listing of manufacturers in the thomas register .
fifteen hundred names were selected in this fashion .
mailing the questionnaire
the questionnaires were mailed in seattle , washington , and sent by regular mail to addresses in the states of idaho , montana , oregon , and washington .
each letter contained a postage-prepaid return envelope by regular mail for addresses in the pacific northwest , and by airmail for those outside the pacific northwest .
the first test mailing ( to 14 companies ) was made in june , 1960 .
the final mailing of the questionnaire was made late in august , 1960 , to 4,900 firms consisting of 3,450 from the aia list and 1,450 from the tr list .
returns received
they continued to arrive until the end of december , 1960 , by which time a total of 1,343 returns were received representing 26.8 per cent of the 5,014 questionnaires sent out .
the remaining 1,286 returns that were processed came from the categories in table 2 .
processing the returns
all responses , except comments , were numerically coded to permit use of data-processing equipment .
each return required three cards and involved key punching 228 digital columns .
the cards were then processed using standard ibm punch card equipment , including an ibm 650 computer .
( see chapter 2 .
the returns from companies classified as large businesses were set aside and not used because they were not relevant to a study of the opinions and practices of small firms .
the methods and results of this comparative analysis are described in appendix aj .
in the first place , the two groups of firms , when combined , had characteristics and practices that were more representative of companies that were the subject of this study than did the firms from the aia list alone .
during the summer of 1960 , it became the setting for a bitter and basic labor-management struggle .
by virtue of the legal responsibilities of the department of employment in the farm placement program , we necessarily found ourselves in the middle between these two forces .
we have sought to be strictly neutral as between the parties , but at the same time we have been required frequently to rule on specific issues or situations as they arose .
often the displeased parties interpreted our decision as implying favoritism toward the other .
it is disconcerting , nevertheless , to read in a labor weekly , `` perluss knuckles down to growers '' , and then to be confronted with a growers' publication which states , `` perluss recognizes obviously phony and trumped-up strikes as bona fide '' .
these attempts met with little sucess for a variety of reasons .
this past year the pattern has been different : the organizing program had the full support of the afl-cio , which supplied staff and money to the awoc , as well as moral support .
regardless of where personal sympathies may lie as between the parties , failure to recognize these changed conditions would be to ignore the facts of life .
the awoc has been able to employ the traditional weapons of labor -- the strike and the picket line -- with considerable success , particularly in the area of wages .
to date , at least , the strategy of the awoc has been selective ; ;
primarily , we became involved in these disputes because of our referral obligations under our farm placement program .
but the current issues arose out of the wagner-peyser act concerning referrals to an establishment where a labor dispute exists , and out of public law 78 and the migrant labor agreement if mexican nationals were employed at the ranch .
infrequently do we think of it as a living , continuing , operating control over the system .
california has accepted the provisions of that act ( as have all other states ) by enacting into our code ( section 2051 ) a provision that
with respect to labor disputes , the wagner-peyser act states only ,
other provisions of the act empower the secretary to adopt regulations necessary to carry out its provisions , and he has done so .
referrals in labor dispute situations .
with respect to positions not covered by subparagraph ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) of this paragraph , any individual may be referred to a place of employment in which a labor dispute exists , provided he is given written notice of such dispute prior to or at the time of his referral .
it permits referrals under certain circumstances even when there is a labor dispute , provided the individual is given written notice of such a dispute .
the packing shed workers go on strike .
we concluded that we may refer workers to the fieldwork ( but not the packing shed work ) provided we give them written notice of the packing shed dispute .
it is the first part of the regulation that is currently at issue .
employer representatives have contended that the secretary has gone beyond his authority by such a prohibition , on the grounds that the wagner-peyser act requires only written notice to the prospective worker that a dispute exists .
the matter got into the courts this way : one of the early strikes called by the awoc was at the digiorgio pear orchards in yuba county .
accordingly , under clause ( 1 ) of the secretary's regulation , we suspended referrals to the employer .
) the employer , seeking to continue his harvest , challenged our right to cease referrals to him , and sought relief in the superior court of yuba county .
we , of course , obeyed the court order .
however , the federal court held that since the state had accepted the provisions of the wagner-peyser act into its own code , and presumably therefore also the regulations , it was now a state matter .
under that order , we have continued referring workers to the ranch .
the growers have strenuously argued that i should have accepted the superior court decisions as conclusive and issued statewide instructions to our staff to ignore this provision in the secretary's regulation .
legal considerations
it is an accepted juridical principle in california that a superior court decision does not constitute a binding legal precedent .
it is not binding upon another superior court , which could rule to the contrary .
in that event , we can correctly say that we have received an authoritative interpretation of the matter , and one which we can follow statewide with confidence that the policy will not be overthrown in other superior courts .
i believe i am in good company in this view .
the attorney general of the united states , in considering the power of the secretary to issue similar regulations under the wagner-peyser act relating to the interstate recruitment of farm workers , has rendered an opinion sustaining his authority .
next , let us consider briefly the program and administrative implications of a failure on our part to pursue our appeals .
the ramifications of the issue are enormous .
the public interest is so dominant in such an issue that i cannot be so presumptuous as to attempt to settle it by an administrative order based upon conclusions reached in a summary action in one or two superior courts in the state .
as an administrator , i cannot place the employment service in california in jeopardy of being out of compliance with the federal laws by my failure to pursue the avenues of appeal open to me .
the impact of noncompliance under the wagner-peyser act is clear : the withdrawal of some $11 million a year of administrative funds which finance our employment service program or , as a corollary , the taking over by the federal government of its operation .
none has yet arisen under condition ( 2 ) , relating to referral to jobs `` the filling of which is an issue in a labor dispute '' .
should it be defined in a narrow sense to include only such elements as job specifications , union membership , union jurisdiction , and the like ? ?
because of the uncertainty of this definition , i solicited the interpretation of the secretary of labor .
that is , that if wages , for example , is the only issue in a labor dispute , and no workers have left their jobs because of the dispute , we may continue to make referrals .
martin and stendler present evidence that infants and young children can and do solve many problems at a relatively simple perceptual level simply by combining objects and counting them .
they do symbolically what they once had to do concretely .
one experiment showed the greatest one-year difference occurring between the eleventh and twelfth years .
many studies indicate that elementary-school children's interests cover the whole field of science ; ;
and that as they mature their interests and capabilities change and broaden .
how a child feels about himself , about other people , and about the tasks confronting him in school may have as much influence on his success in school as his physical and intellectual characteristics .
emotional maturity is the result of many factors , the principal ones being the experiences of the first few years of the child's life .
concerning this responsibility of the teacher , suggestions for helping children gain better control of the emotions are presented in chapter 11 .
1 .
2 .
3 .
4 .
more effective solutions include explanations , the example of another child , or conditioning by associating the feared object , place , or person with something pleasant .
children need help in learning to control their emotions .
the older child learns that intense emotional outbursts will not win approval by his peers , and , therefore , makes a real effort to control his emotions .
children differ widely in their emotional responses .
as the influence of learning and environment are felt , emotional behavior becomes individualized .
although no national norms exist for the social development of children , the teacher can find a great deal of information concerning types of social behavior normally displayed by children at various age levels .
the student will certainly want to explore more deeply into the fascinating study of immature individuals , struggling to meet their developmental needs , and at the same time trying to learn the rules of the game in the ever-expanding number of groups in which they hold membership .
during early childhood , children are more interested in the approval of their parents and teachers than they are in the approval of other children ; ;
the child who had once considered it a treat to accompany his parents on picnics and family gatherings now considers it a bore .
the group sets the styles in clothing , the kind of play engaged in , and the ideals of right and wrong behavior .
in early childhood the choice of a companion is likely to be for another child of his own age or a year or two older , who can do the things he likes to do ; ;
3 .
loyalty to the group , a feeling of superiority over those who are not members , and unwillingness to play with members of the opposite sex become dominant traits .
during early childhood boys tease and bully , on the average , more than girls ; ;
5 .
girls , who are more mature than boys , frown upon the youthful antics of boys of their own age .
by the time pupils reach the sixth grade , their ethical and moral standards are fairly well developed ; ;
7 .
after the fourth year it begins to decline .
8 .
the child in the primary grades can play harmoniously with one companion , but his desire to be first in everything gets him into trouble when the group gets larger ; ;
in the middle grades , however , he begins to participate more effectively in group activities such as selecting a leader , helping to make plans and carry on group activities , and setting up rules governing the enterprise .
much progress has been made in the last two decades in developing techniques for understanding children , yet in almost any classroom today can be found children whose needs are not being met by the school program .
others never seem able to enter fully into the life of the classroom .
many school systems now employ school psychologists and child guidance specialists .
it is the classroom teacher , however , who has daily contacts with pupils , and who is in a unique position to put sound psychological principles into practice .
teachers and administrators in many elementary schools have assumed that dividing the pupils in any grade into groups on the basis of test scores solves the problem of meeting the needs of individuals .
although the teacher must be concerned with maintaining standards , he must also be concerned about understanding differences in ability , background , and experience .
studies conducted in various sections of the united states indicate that many children in elementary schools are maladjusted emotionally , and that many of them are failing to make satisfactory progress in school subjects .
it is apparent , therefore , that the teacher needs to know what factors have a vital bearing on the learning and adjustment of children .
these maladjustments in turn inhibit learning , and a vicious cycle is completed .
the causes of retardation and maladjustment may be found in physical factors , such as defective speech or hearing , impaired vision , faulty motor coordination , a frail constitution , chronic disease , malnutrition , and glandular malfunctioning .
they may be related to mental immaturity or lack of aptitude for certain types of school work .
teaching methods , learning materials , and promotion policies may inhibit learning and lead to maladjustments for some children .
this is only a minimum list of the factors that inhibit learning and contribute to maladjustment among children .
a vision handicap that may produce nervous tension and reading disability for one child may spur another child on to even greater achievement in reading .
at any rate , the teacher who recognizes common causes of retardation and maladjustment can frequently do a great deal to eliminate the causes of pupil discouragement , failure , and maladjustment .
successful teaching involves getting enough information about each pupil to understand why he behaves as he does in certain situations and how his achievement in school is being influenced by various factors in his environment .
he cannot be expected to administer all the tests and gather all the information needed about each child in his classroom .
to refine and extend his own techniques for studying individual children ; ;
this section deals with some of the sources of information that can be tapped by the classroom teacher ; ;
cumulative records
these records , when systematically maintained , provide much information about the children , which the teacher can use in guidance , instruction , grouping , and reporting to parents .
during summer vacation periods these records are stored in the office of the principal .
each new teacher to whom the pupil goes is expected to study the information in the cumulative record and to bring it up to date .
the summary report on desegregation progress in education in the middle-south region , 1959 - 1960 '' clearly shows two pieces of information .
second , that both actual and pending desegregation is , with few exceptions , the product or result of court order .
the middle-south region , as defined by the national association of intergroup relations officials ( nairo ) , consists of the states of kentucky , maryland , tennessee , west virginia , delaware , virginia and the district of columbia .
but the region also embraces some of the staunchest opposition .
desegregation and court order
elementary school desegregation came to owen and union counties , which already had high school desegregation .
in maryland the harford county board of education had prepared a desegregation plan which the court approved but which a plaintiff had challenged ; ;
additional school desegregation in tennessee resulted from a court order opening a school serving children of military personnel .
in west virginia the number of white and negro children attending the same school has increased almost twofold .
as in maryland , a district court has approved an official plan of school desegregation in delaware .
the third circuit court of appeals is reviewing an appeal from the plan .
desegregation in pulaski county is pending because of court order , although date of admission is not yet determined .
desegregation can also result from additional suits brought by negro plaintiffs against school boards in newport news , fairfax county , arlington county , and norfolk .
this recapitulation makes it clear that school desegregation continues , including the old dominion state , in spite of its stern resistance .
that on the immediate horizon , if further large-scale ( relatively speaking ) desegregation comes , it will result from court orders on suits filed in several middle-south states .
before turning to my views as to the problems and issues before us at this regional conference , i wish to note a small item in the summary report as it refers to the district of columbia .
i see no real prospects for an all-negro school population .
nearby foggy bottom is ousting negroes .
the capitol hill rehabilitation , like foggy bottom , replaces negroes with whites ( but also replaces some whites with other whites ) .
in fact , short of fleeing to warrenton , virginia , or rockville , maryland , white people may have to live with negroes .
problems to solve
they vex us and perplex us but generally do not divide us like the issues which follow the problems .
it is slow .
i believe we all want no child denied admission to a school on account of his color .
how to achieve this objective is a problem , but we are not divided on what we want .
it may be county school board or state school board action , as well as that of municipal school boards .
this is a problem , and i believe there is little difference of opinion that wherever possible a local school board should devise and effect a plan of desegregation .
not simply a brief program when the schools are actually desegregated but a continuing program that also promotes integration , that encourages the children and teachers not to look at each other as white or negro , but as human beings .
not whether it should be done .
in fact , in the desegregated school system which may have a good many schools with all-negro population , how can we assure equal opportunity ? ?
fifth , in the segregated school system or in the all-negro or all-white schools , how can we encourage better group relations or an improved attitude toward people who do not belong to the group ? ?
now , the issues
issue no. 1 .
since on the one hand school desegregation has come in virginia hand-in-glove with pupil assignment , shall we support the plan ? ?
shall we support pupil assignment ? ?
shall we therefore oppose the plan ? ?
issue no. 2 .
in large cities like baltimore , louisville , and washington , d.c. , should school desegregation be extended to all-negro and all-white schools by assigning white and negro teachers , respectively ? ?
or should we argue that if we want adjustment of children to children of different races and that that is impossible in an all-something-or-the-other school , we must at least provide him some opportunity to adjust to people of another race within the school -- namely , to a teacher of another race .
issue no. 3 .
the earlier part of my statement deals with the court orders that resulted in desegregation .
in thousands of school districts , indeed , in the entire state of mississippi , no plaintiff has come forth .
is the requirement that the plaintiff be a person actually denied admission to a school a sound requirement ? ?
even though in civil rights legislation in 1957 and 1960 the provision for the attorney general to act was eliminated , should we nevertheless support such a clause ? ?
issue no. 4 .
this is the powell amendment , which in 1957 divided even a `` liberal '' group like the american veterans committee ( avc ) .
this is softer than earlier powell amendments which would have denied funds to all segregated school districts .
the federal funds limitation enlists the support of many , the opposition of quite a few .
required public education .
for the school year , 1959-1960 , the prince edward county ( virginia ) board of supervisors voted not to provide funds for public education , and the school board therefore could provide no public education -- for white or negro children .
or is this subject a matter of self-determination , a matter of states rights or county rights ? ?
even if we marshal substantial agreement behind mandatory public education , we likely cannot expect that all the states will enact the legislation .
or must it become law by amendment of the united states constitution ? ?
issue no. 6 .
if the above issue is settled by requiring public education for all citizens , issue no. 6 may be moot .
nearly half the children still receive no education .
should the government directly provide education for the children who want public education ? ?
on the whole , it appears that they do not favor their own social classes in an explicit way .
a hypothetical issue of this sort might deal with the establishment of a free public junior college in a community where there already was a good private college which served the middle-class youth adequately but was too expensive for working-class youth .
campbell studied the records of 172 school board members in twelve western cities over the period of 1931 - 40 and found `` little or no relationship between certain social and economic factors and school board competence '' , as judged by a panel of professional educators who studied the voting records on educational issues .
in general , it appears that trustees and board members attempt to represent the public interest in their administration of educational policy , and this is made easier by the fact that the dominant values of the society are middle-class values , which are generally thought to be valid for the entire society .
if there were more such cases , it would be easier to answer the question whether the policy-makers favor their own social classes .
this is the issue of segregated schools in the south .
thus , the white middle and lower classes are arrayed against the negro middle and lower classes .
if this happens , there may be some class conflict in the south , with school boards and school teachers taking the middle-class position .
the members of the educational profession have a major voice in the determination of educational policy , their position being strongest in the universities .
do they make class-biased decisions ? ?
there is no problem here .
for instance , in giving school grades or in making recommendations for the award of a college scholarship , does he consciously or unconsciously favor students of one or another social class ? ?
the answers to questions such as these certainly depend to some extent upon the educator's own social-class position and also upon his social history , as well as upon his personality and what he conceives his mission to be as an educator .
one upward-mobile teacher may be a hard taskmaster for lower-class pupils because she wants them to develop the attitudes and skills that will enable them to climb , while another upward-mobile teacher may be a very permissive person with lower-class pupils because he knows their disadvantages and deprivations at home , and he hopes to encourage them by friendly treatment .
their own experience in the social system influences their work and attitudes as teachers .
teachers who have been upward mobile probably see education as most valuable for their students if it serves students as it has served them ; ;
this does not necessarily mean that such teachers will favor vocational education , as contrasted with liberal education , but they are likely to favor an approach to liberal education which has a maximal vocational-advancement value , as against a kind of `` pure '' liberal education that is not designed to help people get better jobs .
there are several causes for this , one being rapid economic development with increasing numbers of of middle-class positions requiring engineering or scientific training .
compared with the college and university faculty members of the period from 1900 to 1930 , the new postwar faculty members consist of more children of immigrants and more children of urban working-class fathers .
the `` public interest '' groups
legislators are one such group , and state legislators have major responsibility for educational legislation .
however , there are relatively few such political constituencies , and , as has been pointed out , there is seldom a clear-cut distinction between the educational interests of one social class and those of another .
generally these commissions work earnestly to represent the interest of the entire society , as they conceive it .
for instance , there have been two presidential commissions on higher education since world war 2 .
both commissions consisted of upper-middle- and upper-class people , who attempted to act in the public interest .
this commission recommended against the use of federal government funds for the assistance of private universities and against a broad program of government-supported scholarships .
which recommended a federal government scholarship program .
thus , the commission acted with a sense of social responsibility within the area of its own convictions about the problem of government support to private education .
these people are practically always upper- or upper-middle-class persons , who attempt to act in what they regard as the interest of the entire society .
these have an upper-middle-class leadership and a middle-class membership , with rare exceptions , where working-class parents are active in local p.-t.a. matters .
in general , it appears that educational decisions and educational policies are made by people who intend to act in the interests of the society as a whole .
they may be unaware of the existence of lower-class values and consequently fail to take them into account .
they think of themselves as trustees for the entire society and try to serve the entire society .
educational policy in the united states has as an explicit goal the maximization of economic and cultural opportunity .
on the other hand , there is a counterbalancing purpose in education which is to pass on the advantages of the parents to their children .
both of these purposes exist side by side without much overt conflict under present conditions .
the broad expansion of free education results both in raising the average economic and cultural level of the society and in promoting fluidity within the social structure .
during the past decade the program has been carried on through expansion of free higher education in state universities , state colleges , and community colleges .
the recent federal government's student-loan program is another step in the direction of making higher education more available to lower-status youth .
meanwhile , the private colleges have increased their tuition rates so much that they have raised an economic barrier which dwarfs their scholarship funds .
unfortunately , however , and for reasons to be discussed in the following chapter , no rate relationships can be made completely nondiscriminatory as long as all or some of the rates must be set above marginal costs in order to yield adequate revenues .
one such disagreement , which will receive attention in this next chapter , concerns the question whether rates for different kinds of service , in order to avoid the attribute of discrimination , must be made directly proportional to marginal costs , or whether they should be based instead on differences in marginal costs .
two major types of fully distributed cost analysis
the double-step type
for more explicit expositions , one must distinguish different types of analyses .
the first , or double-step , type might also be called the `` railroad type '' because of its application to railroads ( and other transportation agencies ) by the cost section of the interstate commerce commission .
the variable costs alone are assigned to the different units of freight traffic as representing `` long-run out-of-pocket costs '' -- a term with a meaning here not distinctly different from that of the economist's `` long-run marginal costs '' .
nevertheless , because the cost section has felt impelled to make some kind of a distribution of total costs , it has apportioned this residue , which it sometimes calls `` burden '' , among the units of carload traffic on a basis ( partly ton , partly ton-mile ) which is concededly quite arbitrary from the standpoint of cost determination .
) has amounted to about one third of those total revenue requirements which the carload freight business is supposed to be called upon to meet .
suffice it to say that the usefulness of the latter apportionment is questionable .
and a mere cost apportionment which somehow spreads among the classes and units of service even those costs that are strictly unallocable from the standpoint of specific cost determination .
the single-step type
it might be called the `` public utility '' type because of the considerable use to which it has been put in gas and electric utility rate cases .
instead , all of the total costs are treated as variable costs , although these costs are divided into costs that are deemed to be functions of different variables .
as already noted in an earlier paragraph , the more familiar cost analyses of utility enterprises or utility systems divide the total costs among a number of major classes of service , such as residential , commercial , industrial power , street lighting , etc. .
high-tension industrial power service , for example , would not be charged with any share of the maintenance costs or capital costs of the low-tension distribution lines .
and these costs must somehow be apportioned among the various classes and then must somehow be reapportioned among the units of service in order to report unit costs that can serve as tentative measures of reasonable rates .
but before turning to this example , we must distinguish two subtypes of analysis , both of which belong to the single-step type rather than to the double-step type .
here , an apportionment , say , of $5,000,000 of the total costs to residential service as a class would include an allowance of perhaps 6 per cent as the cost of whatever capital is deemed to have been devoted to the service of the residential consumers .
to be sure , the capital investments in ( or , alternatively , the estimated `` fair values '' of ) the plant and equipment are apportioned among the different classes , as are also the gross revenues received from the sales of the different services .
thus , during any given year ( a ) if the revenues from the residential service are $7,000,000 , ( b ) if the operating expenses imputed to this class of service come to $5,000,000 , and ( c ) if the net investment in ( or value of ) the plant and equipment deemed devoted to this service amounts to $30,000,000 , the cost analyst will report that residential service , in the aggregate , has yielded a return of $2,000,000 or 6-2/3 per cent .
there are obvious reasons of convenience for this practice of excluding `` cost of capital '' from the direct apportionment of annual costs among the different classes of service -- notably , the avoidance of the controversial question what rate of return should be held to constitute `` cost of capital '' or `` fair rate of return '' .
needless to say , any such inference would be quite unwarranted .
that is to say , an allowance for `` cost of capital '' will be assumed to be included directly in the cost apportionment .
in order to simplify the exposition of a typical fully apportioned cost analysis , let us assume the application of the analysis to an electric utility company supplying a single city with power generated by its own steam-generation plant .
this latter assumption will permit us to center attention on the most controversial aspect of modern public utility cost analysis -- the distinction among costs that are functions of outputs of the same service measured along different dimensions .
indeed , that it would be limited to a finding of the total annual operating and capital costs of the business , followed by a calculation of this total in terms of annual cost per kilowatt-hour of consumption .
for a statement of costs per kilowatt-hour would ignore the fact that many of these costs are not a function of kilowatt-hour output ( or consumption ) of energy .
the simplest division , and the one most frequently used ( with subdivisions ) in gas and electric rate cases , is a threefold division of the total operating and capital costs into `` customer costs '' , `` energy '' or `` volumetric costs '' , and `` demand '' or `` capacity '' costs .
for example , the monthly bill of a residential consumer might be the sum of a $1 customer charge , a $5 charge for 250 kilowatt-hours of energy at
but our present interest lies in the measurement of costs of service , and only indirectly in rates that may or may not be designed to cover these costs .
costs actually vary in much more complex ways .
the customer costs
included as a minimum are the costs of metering and billing along with whatever other expenses the company must incur in taking on another consumer .
while costs on this order are sometimes separately charged for in residential and commercial rates , in the form of a mere `` service charge '' , they are more frequently wholly or partly covered by a minimum charge which entitles the consumer to a very small amount of gas or electricity with no further payment .
the preconditions of sociology have remained largely unexamined by the sociologist .
but what is the operational worth of a sociology which mimetically reproduces the idea of physical models ? ?
it has become painfully clear that the very attempt to make the language of social research free of values by erecting mathematical and physical models , is itself a conditioned response to a world which pays a premium price for technological manipulation .
( cf. rapoport , 1959 : :
) here i think the role of the philosopher becomes apparent .
for if the small group notion involves the implicit claim that the phenomena of sociological investigations are of atomic or subatomic proportions , the philosopher needs to know the extent to which such entities are valid .
( cf. brodbeck , 1959 : :
)
philosophy can supply adequate criteria of meaning in the selection of socially viable categories .
merton's functional sociology may have great practical use in the study of different cultures , yet it is perfectly clear , as nagel ( 1957 : :
271 - 307 ) indicate , that the concept of function in sociology has been built up from physiological and biological models , in which the notions of teleology , i.e. , metaphysical purpose , are central .
) functionalism as a sociological credo is , therefore , not a direct consequence of observations , but rather an indirect consequence of philosophical inference and judgment .
it is absurd to speak of philosophy as a superior enterprise to sociology , since the former is a logical , rational discipline , where sociology is essentially descriptive and empirical .
but contrary to whitehead , philosophy is not a synonym for plato .
however , when philosophy attempts to stand above the sciences , to dictate the conditions of empirical research , it becomes formal metaphysics ; ;
the notion of philosophy as queen bee may fit well with authoritarian modes of political ideology , but it has been noted that the price of such an imperial notion of philosophy is the frustration and flagellation of the social sciences .
pt. 2 , ch. 5 ; ;
)
it has surrendered any claims of description in favor of psychological accounts of nothingness , as in heidegger's system ( 1929 ) .
it is not positivism which has isolated metaphysics from reality by distinguishing between description and prescription .
consider the traditional `` four fields '' of philosophy : logic , ethics , epistemology and esthetics .
what is left to traditional systems of philosophy is , in effect , only the history of these fields prior to their becoming rigorous enough to abide by the canons of scientific method .
the relinquishing by philosophy of pretentious claims to empirical priority gives it an ability to treat problems of meaning and truth which in the past it was unable to examine because of its missionary attitude to knowledge of more humble sorts .
beyond this , philosophy may urge the social sciences forward by asking the type of question that falls outside the present scope of social inquiry , but within its potential domain of relevance .
likewise , kant formulated the nebular hypothesis , according to which the solar system was evolved from a rotating mass of incandescent gas , nearly a half century before its scientific value was made plain by laplace in his systeme du monde .
but the forceful presentation of new issues for the sciences to work on is itself a monumental task .
however , modesty and triviality are different qualities .
the ceaseless effort to understand and measure the distance mankind has traversed since its primitive anthropological status offers a more durable sort of drama .
philosophy can prevent the working scientist from becoming slothful and self-content by noting the assumptions and level at which a hypothesis or theory is framed .
the realm of science , whatever the degree of precision in formulations , covers the range of prediction and explanation .
135 - 75 .
for some forms of philosophy , this very division between the empirical and the rational becomes a sign of the metaphysical superiority of the latter .
this is simply a confession of intellectual sterility spruced up to look virtuous .
in this , philosophy and science share a common goal .
for this division is but an abstract representation of the social struggle between mysticism and science .
the tenacity with which present metaphysical attitudes fetishize private intuition offers the strongest evidence that the gulf between scientific and delphic ways of philosophizing is built into the present conflict over the limits and purpose of science , religion and ideology .
) scientific systems , and this includes even the relation of mechanist to relativist physics , are built upon , refined and corrected .
in addition to the incompleteness of science and the completeness of metaphysics , they differ in that science is essentially descriptive , while philosophy in its inherited forms , tends to be goal-oriented , teleological and prescriptive .
when dealing with the actual relation of philosophy to the sociology of knowledge , or better the role of philosophy in assisting research on the social sources of ideas , one has to become necessarily selective .
philosophic analysis of the assumptions and presumptions of the social sciences ; ;
the objection will be raised that the most important role of philosophy in relation to social science has been omitted , namely the status of ultimate value questions and norms operative in the social sciences .
what then is the status of such questions as : is society the ground of human existence or a means to an individual goal ? ?
does society really exist as an entity over and above the agglomeration of men ? ?
as simmel ( 1908 ) and dilthey ( 1922 ) indicated , questions of whether the value of life is individual or social are not questions , but assertions of faith made to appear as legitimate questions .
social theory has no more right to expect results from meaningless questions , than physics has the right to expect a theological solution to the wave-particle controversy .
it is rather that introducing them into social analysis reflects not so much a search for truth as for certainty .
to raise the added objection that men require certainty on psychological grounds , answers to ultimate questions having an irrational rather than scientific basis , is in a real sense to undermine the objection itself .
a philosophy which attempts to supply ultimate answers in an ultimate way reveals its acquiescence in the shortcomings of men , an impatience with partial , tentative solutions .
uncertainty overcoming itself is the precondition of the quest for new and more precise information about the world .
the functional interplay of philosophy and science should , as a minimum , guarantee a meaningful option to myth-making .
but neither was the statement empirical , for goodness was not a quality like red or squeaky that could be seen or heard .
to find a place for them in their theory of knowledge would require them to revise the theory radically , and yet that theory was what they regarded as their most important discovery .
if it could be shown that judgments of good and bad were not judgments at all , that they asserted nothing true or false , but merely expressed emotions like `` hurrah '' or `` fiddlesticks '' , then these wayward judgments would cease from troubling and weary heads could be at rest .
they explained value judgments by explaining them away .
but before discussing it , i should like to record one vote of thanks to them for the clarity with which they have stated their case .
this theory has been put so clearly and precisely that it deserves criticism of the same kind , and this i will do my best to supply .
i shall argue that we do mean to do just that .
there is perhaps no value statement on which people would more universally agree than the statement that intense pain is bad .
we come upon a rabbit that has been caught in one of the brutal traps in common use .
the attempt failed : the animal is now dead .
the positivist tells us that when we say this we are only expressing our present emotion .
consider what follows from the positivist view .
for what i express in my remark is something going on in me at the time , and that of course did not exist until i did come on the scene .
nothing evil was happening when that pain was being endured ; ;
now that this is at odds with our meaning may be shown as follows .
are we prepared to say that in that case nothing bad occurred in the sense in which we said it did ? ?
indeed , we should say , on the contrary , that the accident of our later discovery made no difference whatever to the badness of the animal's pain , that it would have been every whit as bad whether a chance passer-by happened later to discover the body and feel repugnance or not .
we are saying that the pain was bad when and as it occurred and before anyone took an attitude toward it .
it removes our present expression and shows that the badness we meant would not be affected by this , whereas on positivist grounds it should be .
it ideally removes the past event , and shows that this would render false what we mean to say , whereas on positivist grounds it should not .
on the positivist theory , everything i sought to express by calling it evil in the first case is still present in the second .
and our question is , is such an implication consistent with what we meant ? ?
if anyone asked us , after we made the remark that the suffering was a bad thing , whether we should think it relevant to what we said to learn that the incident had never occurred and no pain had been suffered at all , we should say that it made all the difference in the world , that what we were asserting to be bad was precisely the suffering we thought had occurred back there , that if this had not occurred , there was nothing left to be bad , and that our assertion was in that case mistaken .
if we did not mean to say this , why should we be so relieved on finding that the suffering had not occurred ? ?
the positivist theory would here distort our meaning beyond recognition .
he holds that goodness and badness lie in feelings of approval or disapproval .
the pain in itself was neutral ; ;
this way of escape is theoretically possible , but since it has grave difficulties of its own and has not , so far as i know , been urged by positivists , it is perhaps best not to spend time over it .
when we come upon the rabbit and make our remark about its suffering being a bad thing , we presumably make it with some feeling ; ;
but suppose that a week later we revert to the incident in thought and make our statement again .
the pathetic evidence is no longer before us ; ;
in these circumstances , since what was expressed by the remark when first made is , on the theory before us , simply absent , the remark now expresses nothing .
and this seems to me untrue .
we should say that we made our point with feeling the first time and little or no feeling the second time , but that it was the same point we were making .
i come now to a fourth consideration .
but on the theory before us such a belief would not make sense .
but that is not exactly my point .
let me illustrate .
whatever the unhappy inmates of such camps are like today , dostoevsky's companions were about as grim a lot as can be imagined .
most of us would say that in this delight at the killing of others or the causing of suffering there is something very unfitting .
now on the subjectivist view , this answer is ruled out .
there is therefore nothing about them to which an attitude of approval or condemnation could be fitting .
but if that is true , why is any attitude more fitting than any other ? ?
would condemnation be fitting if , independently of the condemnation , there were nothing bad to condemn ? ?
indeed , we are forced to go much farther .
if there is nothing evil in these things , if they get their moral complexion only from our feeling about them , why shouldn't they be greeted with a cheer ? ?
it would needlessly bring badness into the world ; ;
on the other hand , to greet them with delight would convert what before was neutral into something good ; ;
the injured german veteran was a former miner , twenty-four years old , who had been wounded by shrapnel in the back of the head .
in any event , the extraordinary result of this injury was that he became `` psychically blind '' , while at the same time , apparently , the sense of touch remained essentially intact .
this circumstance in the patient's case plus the fact that his tactual capacity remained basically in sound working order constitutes its exceptional value for the problem at hand since the evidence presented by the authors is overwhelming that , when the patient closed his eyes , he had absolutely no spatial ( that is , third-dimensional ) awareness whatsoever .
we do not arrive at spatial images by means of the sense of touch by itself .
that is , there is , in the true sense , only a visual space '' .
this is an assumption with which few would be disposed to quarrel .
the force of the authors' analysis ( if indeed it has any force ) can be felt by the reader , i believe , only after three questions have been successfully answered .
( 2 ) what evidence is there that he was psychically blind ? ?
we shall consider these in the inverse order of their presentation .
the answer the authors give to it , therefore , is of supreme importance .
the supposed tactual sense of spatial location and orientation in the patient and his ability to specify the location of a member , as well as the direction and scope of a movement , passively executed ( with one of his members ) , proved to have been , on the contrary , very considerably affected '' .
first of all , what is their evidence that the tactual apparatus was fundamentally undamaged ? ?
and he could tell , simply by the feel of it , whether it was made of wood , iron , cloth , rubber , and so on .
that is , he was unaware what kind of objects they were or what their use was .
because of his brain injury and the extreme damage suffered to his sight , the patient had to train himself for a new line of work , that of a portfolio-maker , an occupation requiring a great deal of precision in the making of measurements and a fairly well-developed sense of form and contour .
and so the authors conclude : `` the conduct of the patient in his every-day life and in his work , even more than the foregoing facts ( mentioned above under 1 ) , leave positively no room for doubt that the sense of touch , in the ordinary sense of the word , was unaffected ; ;
if the argument is accepted as essentially sound up to this point , it remains for us to consider whether the patient's difficulties in orienting himself spatially and in locating objects in space with the sense of touch can be explained by his defective visual condition .
then we shall perhaps be in a position to provide something like a complete answer to the question at hand .
he could not see objects as unified , self-contained , and organized figures , as a person does with normal vision .
and , therefore , he could not recognize even long-familiar things upon seeing them again .
according to his own testimony , he never actually saw things as shaped but only as generally amorphous `` blots '' of color of a more or less indefinite size ; ;
but by the tracing procedure , he could , in a strange obviously kinesthetic manner , find the unseen form ; ;
if , however , the figure to be discerned were complicated , composed of several interlocking subfigures , and so on , even the tracing process failed him , and he could not focus even relatively simple shapes among its parts .
the patient himself denied that he had any visual imagery at all ; ;
after a conversation with another man , he was able to recount practically everything that had been said but could not describe at all what the other man looked like .
in short , both his own declarations and his figural blindness , when he looked at objects , seem to present undeniable evidence that he had simply no visual memory at all .
he could not recognize it ; ;
therefore , his only recourse was to learn the shape all over again for each new visual experience of the same individual object or type of object ; ;
then he might finally recognize it , apparently by combining the visual blot , actually being seen , with tactual feelings in the head or body accompanying the tracing movements .
as one would surmise , the procedure , however , could be repeated with the same object or with the same type of object often enough , so that the corresponding visual blots and the merest beginning of the tracing movement would provide clues as to the actual shape , which the patient then immediately could determine by a kind of inference .
dice , for example , he inferred from black dots on a white surface .
and the authors give numerous instances of calculated guessing on the patient's part to show how large a role it played in his process of readapting himself and how proficient he became at it .
perhaps the very important question -- what is , then , exactly the role of kinesthetic sensations in the patient's ability to recognize forms and shapes by means of the tracing movements when he is actually looking at things ? ?
if the patient can perceive figure kinesthetically when he cannot perceive it visually , then , it would seem , the sense of touch has immediate contact with the spatial aspects of things in independence of visual representations , at least in regard to two dimensions , and , as we shall see , even this much spatial awareness on the part of unaided touch is denied by the authors .
the authors set about answering this fundamental question through a detailed investigation of the patient's ability , tactually , ( 1 ) to perceive figure and ( 2 ) to locate objects in space , with his eyes closed ( or turned away from the object concerned ) .
when the patient was not allowed to move his body in any way at all , the following striking results occurred .
a schematic , abstract treatment of men and animals , by intent , rose only in the late eighth century .
at the least , however , one may conclude that geometric potters sensed a logical order ; ;
their world , again , was a still simple , traditional age which was only slowly beginning to appreciate the complexity of life .
the storms of the past had died away , and the great upheaval which was to mark the following century had not yet begun to disturb men's minds .
in the vases this spirit may perhaps at times bore or repel one in its internal self-satisfaction , but the best of the geometric pins have rightly been considered among the most beautiful ever made in the greek world .
the aegean in 800 b.c.
from even a cursory inspection of its many aspects , however , the historian can deduce several fundamental conclusions about the progress of the aegean world down to 800 b.c.
the general intellectual outlook which had appeared in the eleventh century was now consolidated to a significant degree .
in this process the minoan-mycenaean inheritance had been transmuted or finally rejected ; ;
those modern scholars who urge that we must keep in mind the fundamental continuity of aegean development from earliest times -- granted occasional irruptions of peoples and ideas from outside -- are correct ; ;
the focus of novelty in this world now lay in the south-eastern districts of the greek mainland , and by 800 virtually the entire aegean , always excepting its northern shores , had accepted the geometric style of pottery .
in their place came local variations within the common style -- tentative , as it were , in protogeometric products but truly distinct and sharply defined as the geometric spirit developed .
one can take a vase of about 800 b.c. and , without any knowledge of its place of origin , venture to assign it to a specific area ; ;
the potters of the aegean islands thus stood apart from those of the mainland , and in greece itself argive , corinthian , attic , boeotian , and other geometric sequences have each their own hallmarks .
the same conclusions can be drawn from the other physical evidence of the dark ages , from linguistic distribution , and from the survivals of early social , political , and religious patterns into later ages .
on these pillars rested that solid basis for life and thought which was soon to be manifested in the remarkably unlimited ken of the iliad .
greek history and culture were enduringly fertilized , and plagued , by the interplay of these conjoined yet opposed factors .
many aspects of civilization were not yet sufficiently crystallized to find expression , nor could the simple economic and social foundations of this world support a lofty structure .
what we have seen in this chapter , we have seen only dimly , and yet the results , however general , are worth the search .
to interpret , indeed , the era from 1000 to 800 as a period mainly of consolidation may be a necessary but unfortunate defect born of our lack of detailed information ; ;
the historian can only point out those lines which were major enough to find reflection in our limited evidence , and must hope that future excavations will enrich our understanding .
the pace could now be accelerated , for the inhabitants of the aegean stood on firm ground .
the landscape of greek history broadens widely , and rather abruptly , in the eighth century b.c. , the age of homer's `` rosy-fingered dawn '' .
but our evidence grows considerably in variety and shows more unmistakably some of the lines of change .
the ceramic material of the age is more abundant , more diversified , and more indicative of the hopes and fears of its makers , who begin to show scenes of human life and death .
objects in gold , ivory , and bronze grow more numerous .
though it is not easy to apply the evidence of the iliad to any specific era , this marvelous product of the epic tradition had certainly taken definitive shape by 750 .
but both were among the last products of a phase which was ending .
the revolution was well under way before 700 b.c. , and premonitory signs go back virtually across the century .
while many tokens point forward , the main achievements stand as a culmination of the simple patterns of the dark ages .
political organization revolved about the basileis ; ;
the gods who protected the greek countryside were only now putting on their sharply anthropomorphic dress .
not all men of the period would have accepted this emphasis .
the poet of the iliad deliberately archaized .
on this principle of division i must postpone the evolution of sculpture , architecture , society , and politics ; ;
the growing contacts between aegean and orient are also a phase which should be linked primarily to the remarkable broadening of hellenic culture after 750 .
the important point , however , is that these magnificent achievements , unlike those of later decades , were only incidentally influenced by oriental models .
dipylon pottery
the severe yet harmonious vases of the previous fifty years , the strong geometric style of the late ninth century , display as firm a mastery of the principles underlying geometric pottery ; ;
the vases which resulted had different shapes , far more complex decoration , and a larger sense of style .
in earlier centuries men had had enough to do in rebuilding a fundamental sense of order after chaos .
the potters , in particular , had virtually eschewed freehand drawing , elaborate motifs , and the curving lines of nature , while yet expressing a belief that there was order in the universe .
by 800 social and cultural security had been achieved , at least on a simple plane ; ;
ripe geometric potters continued to employ the old syntax of ornaments and shapes and made use of the well-defined though limited range of motifs which they had inherited .
to the ancestral lore , however , new materials were added .
instead they divided the surface into many bands or covered it by all-over patterns into which freehand drawing began to creep .
the rows of animals and birds , in particular , suggest awareness of oriental animal friezes , transmitted perhaps via syrian silver bowls and textiles , but the specific forms of these rows on local vases and metal products are nonetheless greek .
as the material at the command of the potters grew and the volume of their production increased , the local variations within a common style became more evident .
cook had discovered a beef in his possession a few days earlier and , when he could not show the hide , arrested him .
even while suffering the trip to his home , cook swore to moore and lane that he would kill the indian .
arriving at daybreak , they found julio in his corral and demanded that he surrender .
both cook's and russell's lives were threatened by the mexicans following the killing , but the company officers felt that in the end , it would serve to quiet them despite their immediate emotion .
on february 17 , russell and cook were sent to the pena flor community on the vermejo to see about renting out ranches the company had purchased .
it was nearly sundown before they finished the business with beall and began riding down the stream .
suspecting an ambush , the two deputies decided to ride up a side canyon taking a short cut into catskill .
they stayed with a rancher friday night and by eleven o'clock saturday morning passed the old garnett lee ranch .
there were three houses in salyer's canyon just at the foot of a low bluff , the road winding along the top , entering above , and then passing down in front of the houses , thence to the vermejo .
as they were riding along this winding road on the bench of land between the two bluffs , a volley of rifle fire suddenly crashed around the two officers .
with the first reports , russell's horse wheeled to the right and ran towards the buildings while cook , followed by a hail of bullets , raced towards the arroyo of salyer's canyon immediately in front of him , just reaching it as his horse fell .
bullets were so thick , throwing sand in his face , that he found it difficult to return the fire .
at a very shallow place , two mexicans rushed into the open for a shot .
just before leaving the arroyo where he was partially concealed , he did hear shots down at the house .
a bullet fired by one of the mexicans hiding in a little chicken house had passed through his head , tearing a hole two-inches square on the outgoing side .
before daylight sunday morning , a posse of twenty-three men under the leadership of deputy sheriff frank macpherson of catskill followed the trail to the house of francisco chaves , where 100 to 150 mexicans had gathered .
the men inside informed him that they had some wounded men among them but he would not be allowed to see them even though he offered medical aid .
the mexicans not only refused to give them , but told the possemen if they wanted a fight they could have it .
the posse's retreat encouraged the mexicans to be overbearing and impudent .
some buildings , farm tools , two horses , plows , and hay owned by bonito lavato , a friendly interpreter for the company , and pedro chavez' hay were stolen or destroyed ; ;
district attorney m. w. mills warned that he would vigorously prosecute persons caught committing these crimes or carrying arms -- he just didn't catch anyone .
his friends advised that it would be only a question of time until either the mexicans killed him by ambuscade or he would be compelled to kill them in self-defense , perpetuating the troubles .
pels also sent a check for $100 to russell's widow and had a white marble monument erected on his grave .
they were reluctant to appoint sheriffs to protect the property , thus running the risk of creating disturbances such as that on the vermejo , and yet the cowboys protested that they got no salary for arresting cattle thieves and running the risk of being shot .
the judge became ill just as the colfax district court convened , no substitute was brought in , no criminal cases heard , only 5 out of 122 cases docketed were tried , and court adjourned sine die after sitting a few days instead of the usual three weeks .
public money spent ; ;
nothing accomplished , and the whole distribution of justice in this county seems to be an absolute farce '' .
although wanted by the sheriff for killing an old man named asher jones , the warrant for his arrest had never been served .
by 3:00 a.m. they reached his house and found it vacant .
still there was no gonzales and the family would say nothing .
while prowling around these buildings , two of the posse recognized the voice of gonzales speaking to the people inside .
the posse then asked that he send out the women and children as the building would be fired or torn down over his head if necessary to take him dead or alive .
in deadly earnest , the besiegers methodically stripped away portions of the roof and tossed lighted rags inside , only to have most stamped out by the women as soon as they hit the floor .
shot near the heart , he turned to one side and plunged for a door to another room several feet away , three bullets following him .
not realizing the seriousness of the wound , the besiegers warned that if he did not surrender the house would be burned down around him .
when the house was about half consumed , his comrade ran to the door and threw up his hands , declaring repeatedly that he did not know the whereabouts of manuel .
several slugs fired into the bed jerked aside the blanket to reveal an apparently lifeless hand .
there was no extra horse so it was left to his comrades who , though numbering in the fifties , had stood around on the hillside nearby without firing a shot during the entire attack .
the sheriff and district attorney mills hastily swore out a number of warrants against men who had been riding about armed , according to signed statements by chavez and dr. i. p. george , and ordered deputy barney clark of raton to rescue the posseman .
occasionally they heard gun-shot signals and a number of horsemen were sighted on the hills , disappearing at the posse's approach .
the men helped them gather their belongings and escorted them to raton along with three other families desiring to leave .
thus he wired j. p. lower and sons of denver : `` have you any percussion hand grenades for throwing in a house or across a well loaded with balls or shrapnel shot ? ?
he wisely decided that it would be foolish to create a disturbance during the coming roundup , particularly since the mexicans were on their guard .
the plant was located west of the battenkill and south of the location of the former electric light plant .
it has given considerable trouble at times and empties right into the battenkill .
the sewer on bonnet street was constructed when there were only a few houses on the street .
b. j. connell is the present treasurer and manager .
the committee submitted a report signed by louis martin and leon wiley with a map published in the 1946 town report .
no figures were submitted with the report and no action was taken on it by the town .
the final step was a vote for a $230,000 bond issue for the construction of a sewage system by the 1959 town meeting , later confirmed by a two-thirds vote at a special town meeting june 21 , 1960 .
telephone and telegraph
at any rate , manchester did not lag far behind the first commercial system which was set up in 1844 between baltimore and washington .
goodwin was telegrapher for the `` american telegraph company '' and the `` troy and canada junction telegraph company '' .
a message of less than fifteen words to bennington cost twenty-five cents .
orvis even needed to hire an assistant , clark j. wait .
in the fall of 1878 , the `` popular telegraph line '' was established between manchester and factory point by the owners , paul w. orvis , henry gray , j. n. hard , and clark j. wait .
in 1879 the same clark wait , with h. h. holley of south dorset , formed the `` american telegraph line '' , extending from manchester depot via factory point and south dorset to dorset .
telegraphers at the depot at this time were aaron c. burr and mark manley of `` burr and manley '' , dealers in lumber and dry goods .
the smallest gusts of wind toppled poles , making communications impossible .
by 1883 the `` battenkill telegraph company '' was in existence and alvin pettibone was its president .
h. k. fowler , vice-president and secretary ; ;
f. h. walker , superintendent ; ;
two companies now had headquarters with clark j. wait , who by then had his own drugstore at factory point -- the `` northern union telegraph company '' and the `` western union '' .
still existing on a `` northern union '' telegraph form is a typical peremptory message from peru grocer j. j. hapgood to burton and graves' store in manchester -- `` get and send by stage four pounds best porterhouse or serloin stake , for mrs. hapgood send six sweet oranges '' .
from 1896 until 1910 john h. whipple was manager of western union at the center in the drugstore he purchased from clark wait .
during the summers , towsley often needed the assistance of a company operator .
new yorkers were kept informed of scores by reporters who telegraphed fifteen to twenty thousand words daily to the metropolitan newspapers .
in 1914 when the town was chosen for the u. s. amateur golf tournament , a representative hurried here from the boston manager's office .
during that tournament alone , some 250,000 words winged their way out of manchester .
during summers , business was so brisk that mrs. wilcox had two assistants and a messenger .
since that time the telegraph office has shifted in location from the railroad station at the depot and shops at the center back to the town clerk's office and drugstore at the village .
the first known telephone line in manchester was established in july 1883 between burr and manley's store at manchester depot and the kent and root marble company in south dorset .
in november 1887 a line connecting several dwelling houses in dorset was extended to manchester depot .
eber l. taylor of manchester depot recorded the setting of phone poles in east dorset and barnumville in his diary for 1906 .
a small single switchboard was installed in the village over woodcock's hardware store ( later e. h. hemenway's ) .
elizabeth way was the first operator ; ;
anyone fortunate enough to have one of those early phones advertised the fact along with the telephone number in the manchester journal .
service running through barnumville and to bennington county towns east of the mountains was in the hands of the `` gleason telephone company '' in 1925 , but major supervision of telephone lines in manchester was with the new england telephone and telegraph company , which eventually gained all control .
in 1931 mrs. f. h. briggs , agent and chief operator , who was to retire in 1946 with thirty years' service , led agency offices in sales for the year with $2,490 .
another veteran telephone operator was edith fleming blackmer , who had been in the office forty years at the time of her death in 1960 .
this eliminated toll calls between the two towns .
electric power
yet one has to go back only some sixty years .
no records are available as to the date or extent of installation , but it may have been in 1896 .
this was working by the end of august and giving satisfactory service .
nothing came of it , perhaps due to lack of opportunity for water storage .
this was nearly completed may 23 , 1901 with a promise of lights by june 10 , but the first light did not go on until september 28 .
the first directors of the manchester light and power company were john marsden , m. l. manley , william f. orvis , george smith , and john blackmer .
john c. blackmer , vice-president ; ;
and william f. orvis , secretary .
at about the time the marsden enterprise was getting under way , the vail light and lumber company started construction of a chair stock factory on the site of the present bennington co-operative creamery , intending to use its surplus power for generating electricity .
this was fortunate , as the vail plant burned in 1905 .
the latter now furnishes the area with electricity distributed from a modern sub-station at manchester depot which was put into operation february 19 , 1930 and was improved in january 1942 by the installation of larger transformers .
some who have written on utopia have treated it as `` a learned diversion of a learned world '' , `` a phantasy with which more amused himself '' , `` a holiday work , a spontaneous overflow of intellectual high spirits , a revel of debate , paradox , comedy and invention '' .
first , it appears to be based on the fact that on its title page utopia is described as `` festivus '' , `` gay '' .
it also overlooks the fact that in a rational lexicon , and quite clearly in more's lexicon , the opposite of serious is not gay but frivolous , and the opposite of gay is not serious but solemn .
that a writer who is gay cannot be serious is a common professional illusion , sedulously fostered by all too many academics who mistakenly believe that their frivolous efforts should be taken seriously because they are expressed with that dreary solemnity which is the only mode of expression their authors are capable of .
indeed , it is even surprising in the canon of christ church and regius professor of ecclesiastical history , who fathered this most peculiar view , and in the brilliant professor of medieval and renaissance english at cambridge , who inherited it and is now its most eminent proponent .
utopia is still widely read because in a sense more stood on the margin of modernity .
it was not even in writing latin epigrams , sometimes bawdy ones , or in translating lucian from greek into latin or in defending the study of greek against the attack of conservative academics , or in attacking the conservative theologians who opposed erasmus's philological study of the new testament .
had more's writings been wholly limited to such exercises , they would be almost as dimly remembered as those of a dozen or so other authors living in his time , whose works tenuously survive in the minds of the few hundred scholars who each decade in pursuit of their very specialized occasions read those works .
and the evidence that he does , indeed , stand there derives quite simply from the vigorous interest with which rather casual readers have responded to that book for the past century or so .
can we discover what it is in utopia that has evoked this response ? ?
we do not even need to commit ourselves to assessing on the same inconceivable scale the relative importance of the medieval , the renaissance , and the modern .
to others whose concern it is to penetrate the significance of christian humanism , the renaissance elements are of primary concern .
we want to know why that book has kept on selling the way it has ; ;
what is new about it ? ?
it can be made in two words , utopian communism .
surely there is nothing new about communism .
we find it in that `` common way of life pleasing to christ and still in use among the truest societies of christians '' , that is , the better monasteries which made it easier to convert the utopians to christianity .
this conception was taken up by the early church fathers and by canon lawyers and theologians in the middle ages ; ;
but although the idea of communism is very old even in more's day and did not spring full-clad from his imagination in 1515 , it is not communism as such that we are concerned with .
we are concerned with utopian communism -- that is , simply communism as it appears in the imaginary commonwealth of utopia , as more conceived it .
we will achieve a more vivid sense of what it is by realizing what it is not .
its function is to separate from the base ruled mass , among whom private ownership prevails , the governing warrior elite .
and it is to this problem that the republic ultimately returns .
utopian communism applies to all utopians .
the concern of utopia is with the optimo reipublicae statu , the best ordering of a civil society ; ;
to derive utopian communism from the jerusalem christian community of the apostolic age or from its medieval successors-in-spirit , the monastic communities , is with an appropriate shift of adjectives , misleading in the same way as to derive it from plato's republic : in the republic we have to do with an elite of physical and intellectual athletes , in the apostolic and monastic communities with an elite of spiritual and religious athletes .
and the monastic communities were supposed to be made up of volunteers selected only after a novitiate which would test their religious aptitude for monastic rigors , their spiritual athleticism .
in that tradition communism lay a safe distance back in the age of innocence before the fall of man .
the actual function of patristic communism was adequately set forth by st. gregory almost a millenium before more wrote utopia .
when we give the necessities of life to the poor , we restore to them what is already theirs .
because community not severalty of property is the law of nature no man can assert an absolutely unalterable right to what is his .
he is a trustee for the common good , however feeble the safeguards which the positive or municipal law of property provides against his misuse of that share of the common fund , wisely or unwisely , entrusted to his keeping .
the utopians brace conscience with legal sanctions .
in all the respects just indicated utopian communism differs from previous conceptions in which community of possessions and living plays a role .
we do not deny originality to the agamemnon because aeschylus found the tales of the house of atreus among the folk lore of the greeks .
it is not merely a new thing ; ;
most of the rest is medieval or humanist or part of an old tradition of social criticism .
and for this statement the best evidence comes within the five years following the publication of utopia , when martin luther elaborates a new perception of the nature of the divine's encounter with man .
although utopian communism is both new in 1516 and also modern , it is not modern communism or even modern socialism , as they exist or have ever existed in theory or in practice .
democratic and secret elections of all officers including priests , meals taken publicly in common refectories ; ;
even houses changed once a decade ; ;
no private property , no money ; ;
whatever the merits of its intent , utopian communism is far too naive , far too crude , to suit any modern socialist or communist .
what that spirit and attitude were we can best understand if we see more precisely how it contrasts with the communist tradition with the longest continuous history , the one which reached christianity by the way of stoicism through the church fathers of late antiquity .
during the brown trial , however , the state's most powerful democratic newspaper , the providence daily post , stated that brown was a murderer , a man of blood , and that he and his associates , with the assistance of republicans and abolitionists , had plotted not only the liberation of the slaves but also the overthrow of state and federal governments .
the two major newspapers in providence continued , throughout the crisis , to accuse each other of misrepresenting the facts and attempting to falsify history .
editor foss stated , `` of their guilt there can be no doubt but they are entitled to sufficient time to prepare for trial , and a fair trial '' .
the providence daily journal stated that although the guilt of brown was evident , the south must guarantee him a fair trial to preserve domestic peace .
for these crimes he was sentenced to be hanged in public on friday , december 2 , 1859 .
although rhode islanders were preparing for the state elections , they watched john brown's trial with extreme interest .
the editor's main criticism of the trial was the haste with which it was conducted .
concerning the sentence the editor asked , `` what else can virginia do than to hang the men who have defied her laws , organized treason , and butchered her citizens '' .
j. wheaton smith , editor of the warren telegraph stated that `` the ends of justice must be satisfied , a solitary example must be set , in order that all those misnamed philantropists , who , actuated by a blind zeal , dare to instigate riot , treason , and murder , may heed it and shape their future course accordingly '' .
in direct contrast to the other rhode island editors , samuel s. foss of the woonsocket patriot outwardly condemned the trial as being completely unfair .
despite the excitement being caused by the trial and sentence of john brown , rhode islanders turned their attention to the state elections .
there was no doubt as to the control the republican party exercised throughout the state .
the american republicans and the republicans both nominated lieutenant-governor turner for governor .
the results of the election of 1859 found republican candidates not only winning the offices of governor and lieutenant-governor but also obtaining the two congressional offices from the eastern and western sections of the state .
on november 7 , 1859 , the providence daily journal reprinted a letter sent to john brown from `` e. b. '' , a quaker lady in newport .
`` e. b. '' compared john brown to moses in that they were both acting to deliver millions from oppression .
most attempts to develop any sympathy for brown and his actions found an unresponsive audience in rhode island .
the warren telegraph stated that many of rev. trafton's remarks were inappropriate and savored strongly of radicalism and fanaticism .
no sympathy or admiration for brown could be found in the providence daily post , for the editor claimed that there were a score of men in the state prison who were a thousand times more deserving of sympathy .
it gives something of dignity even to a bad one '' .
the newport mercury exhibited more concern over the possibility of the abolitionists making a martyr of brown than it did over the development of sympathy for him .
during the latter days of november to the day of brown's execution , it seems that most rhode islanders did not concur in `` e. b.'s '' suggestion .
a week later the daily journal had discovered the initial plans of some providence citizens to hold a meeting honoring john brown on the day of his execution .
the providence daily post's editor wrote that he could not believe that a meeting honoring brown was to be held in providence .
on december 2 , 1859 , john brown was hanged at charles town , virginia .
in many northern towns and cities meetings were held and church bells were tolled .
the only public demonstration in honor of john brown was held at pratt's hall in providence , on the day of his execution .
seated on the platform were amos c. barstow , ex-mayor of providence and a wealthy republican stove manufacturer ; ;
the reverend augustus woodbury , a unitarian minister ; ;
daniel w. vaughan , and william h. h. clements .
the first speaker was amos c. barstow who had been unanimously chosen president of the meeting .
barstow concluded that as rhode island's john brown became a canonized hero , if not a saint , so would it be with john brown of harper's ferry .
although admitting brown's guilt on legal grounds , day said that , `` brown is no common criminal ; ;
following day was woodbury who spoke of his disapproval of brown's attempt at servile insurrection , his admiration of brown's character , and his opposition to slavery .
the fourth and last speaker was thomas davis .
davis commenced his remarks by an allusion to the general feeling of opposition which the meeting had encountered from many of the citizens and all the newspapers of the city .
in the remainder of his speech davis spoke of his admiration for brown and warned those who took part in the meeting that they `` are liable to the charge that they are supporting traitors and upholding men whom the laws have condemned '' .
at the close of davis' speech the following preamble and resolutions were read by the president , and on the question of their adoption passed unanimously :
resolved that , while we most decidedly disapprove the methods he adopted to accomplish his objects , yet in his willingness to die in aid of the great cause of human freedom , we still recognize the qualities of a noble nature and the exercise of a spirit which true men have always admired and which history never fails to honor .
resolved that the anti-slavery sentiment is becoming ripe for resolute action .
on the morning following the pratt hall meeting the editor of the providence daily journal wrote that although the meeting was milder and less extreme than those held in other areas for similar purposes , it could have been avoided completely .
instead of seeing objects in space , it sees nothing more than -- a picture .
to reinforce , and sometimes to replace , the simulated typography , braque and picasso began to mix sand and other foreign substances with their paint ; ;
in certain other pictures , however , braque began to paint areas in exact simulation of wood graining or marbleizing .
that is , by being placed in such relation to the forms depicted within the illusion that these forms left no room for the typography except near the surface .
the process of flattening seemed inexorable , and it became necessary to emphasize the surface still further in order to prevent it from fusing with the illusion .
picasso says that he himself had already made his first collage toward the end of 1911 , when he glued a piece of imitation-caning oilcloth to a painting on canvas .
but it is also true that braque was the consistent pioneer in the use of simulated textures as well as of typography ; ;
when we examine what each master says was his first collage we see that much the same thing happens in each .
) by its greater corporeal presence and its greater extraneousness , the affixed paper or cloth serves for a seeming moment to push everything else into a more vivid idea of depth than the simulated printing or simulated textures had ever done .
for the illusion of depth created by the contrast between the affixed material and everything else gives way immediately to an illusion of forms in bas-relief , which gives way in turn , and with equal immediacy , to an illusion that seems to contain both -- or neither .
literal flatness now tends to assert itself as the main event of the picture , and the device boomerangs : the illusion of depth is rendered even more precarious than before .
the actual surface becomes both ground and background , and it turns out -- suddenly and paradoxically -- that the only place left for a three-dimensional illusion is in front of , upon , the surface .
and the surface is driven back , in its very surfaceness , only by this contrast .
the trompe-l'oeil illusion here is no longer enclosed between parallel flatnesses , but seems to thrust through the surface of the drawing paper and establish depth on top of it .
at the same time , the wallpaper strips themselves seem to be pushed into depth by the lines and patches of shading charcoaled upon them , and by their placing in relation to the block capitals ; ;
thus every part and plane of the picture keeps changing place in relative depth with every other part and plane ; ;
and the same thing , more or less , can be said of the contents of picasso's first collage .
the area adjacent to one edge of a piece of affixed material -- or simply of a painted-in form -- will be shaded to pry that edge away from the surface , while something will be drawn , painted or even pasted over another part of the same shape to drive it back into depth .
all this expands the oscillation between surface and depth so as to encompass fictive space in front of the surface as well as behind it .
depicted , cubist flatness is now almost completely assimilated to the literal , undepicted kind , but at the same time it reacts upon and largely transforms the undepicted kind -- and it does so , moreover , without depriving the latter of its literalness ; ;
out of this re-created literalness , the cubist subject reemerged .
in the analytical phase of their cubism , braque and picasso had not only had to minimize three-dimensionality simply in order to preserve it ; ;
in order to be saved , plasticity had had to be isolated ; ;
cubism , in its 1911-1912 phase ( which the french , with justice , call `` hermetic '' ) was on the verge of abstract art .
if they opted for illusion , it could only be illusion per se -- an illusion of depth , and of relief , so general and abstracted as to exclude the representation of individual objects .
it was the collage that made the terms of this dilemma clear : the representational could be restored and preserved only on the flat and literal surface now that illusion and representation had become , for the first time , mutually exclusive alternatives .
( this provides whatever real justification there is for the talk about `` reality '' .
when the smaller facet-planes of analytical cubism were placed upon or juxtaposed with the large , dense shapes formed by the affixed materials of the collage , they had to coalesce -- become `` synthesized '' -- into larger planar shapes themselves simply in order to maintain the integrity of the picture plane .
and the broad , opaque shapes of pasted paper would have been isolated in such a way as to make them jump out of plane .
and independent silhouettes are apt to coincide with the recognizable contours of the subject from which a picture starts ( if it does start from a subject ) .
analytical cubism came to an end in the collage , but not conclusively ; ;
only when the collage had been exhaustively translated into oil , and transformed by this translation , did cubism become an affair of positive color and flat , interlocking silhouettes whose legibility and placement created allusions to , if not the illusion of , unmistakable three-dimensional identities .
this was the point at which he finally took the lead in cubist innovation away from braque , never again to relinquish it .
it was as though , in that instant , he had felt the flatness of collage as too constricting and had suddenly tried to escape all the way back -- or forward -- to literal three-dimensionality .
some time in 1912 , picasso cut out and folded a piece of paper in the shape of a guitar ; ;
the affixed elements of collage were extruded , as it were , and cut off from the literal pictorial surface to form a bas-relief .
) and without high density in the core , rapid-transit systems cannot be maintained economically , let alone built from scratch at today's prices .
the new interchange among the four los angeles freeways , including the grade-constructed accesses , occupies by itself no less than eighty acres of downtown land , one-eighth of a square mile , an area about the size of rockefeller center in new york .
as it affects the city's fiscal situation , such an interchange is ruinous ; ;
subways improved land values without taking away land ; ;
downtown los angeles is already two-thirds freeway , interchange , street , parking lot and garage -- one of those preposterous `` if '' statistics has already come to pass .
city planners do not always use this boundary as effectively as they might .
meanwhile , the automobile and its friend the truck have cost the central city some of its industrial dominance .
the appeal of the suburb is particularly strong for heavy industry , which must move bulky objects along a lengthy assembly line and wants enough land area to do the entire job on one floor .
this movement of industry away from the central cities is not so catastrophically new as some prophets seem to believe .
the big factories which are relatively near the centers of our cities -- the rubber factories in akron , chrysler's detroit plants , u.s. steel's pittsburgh works -- often began on these sites at a time when that was the edge of the city , yet close to transport ( river ) , storage ( piers ) and power ( river ) .
the truck and the car gave the manufacturer a new degree of freedom in selecting his plant site .
the railroad siding is still important -- it is usually , though not always , true that long-haul shipment by rail is cheaper than trucking .
and there are now many millions of workers for whom the factory with the big parking lot , which can be reached by driving across or against the usual pattern of rush hour traffic and grille-route bus lines , is actually more convenient than the walk-to factory .
they are all suburban plants , relying on the roads to keep them supplied with workers .
the drive along massachusetts' route 128 , the by-pass which makes an arc about twenty miles from downtown boston , may be a vision of the future .
the plants along route 128 are mostly well designed and nicely set against the new england rocks and trees .
but they deny the values of the city -- the crowded , competitive , tolerant city , the `` melting pot '' which gave off so many of the most admirable american qualities .
it is interesting to note how many of the plants on massachusetts' route 128 draw most of their income either from the government in non-competitive cost-plus arrangements , or from the exploitation of patents which grant at least a partial monopoly .
in spreading the factories even farther , the automobile may not have changed to any great extent the growth pattern of the cities .
the hotel-motel demarcation is becoming harder to find every year .
some retailing , of course , always spreads with the population -- grocery stores , drugstores , local haberdasheries and dress shops , candy stores and the like .
department stores congregated in the `` one hundred per cent location '' , where all the transit lines converged .
if the retailer and hotelman's downtown unit sales have been decreasing , however , his dollar volume continues to rise , and it is dollars which you put in the bank .
no suburban shopping-center branch -- not even hudson's vast northland outside detroit -- does anything like the unit volume of business or carries anything like the variety of merchandise to be found in the home store .
the suburban branch is thereby credited with a sale which would have been made even if its glass doors had never opened .
in many cases that statement -- `` we break even on our downtown operation and make money on our branches '' -- would be turned around if the cost analysis were recalculated on terms less prejudicial to the old store .
the fact seems to be that very many large branch stores are uneconomical , that the choice of location in the suburbs is as important as it was downtown , and that even highly suburbanized cities will support only so many big branches .
when all has been said , however , the big branch store remains a major break with history in the development of american retailing .
indeed , there are some cities where the suburban shopping pulls customers who are geographically much nearer to downtown .
to the extent that the problem is merely parking , an aggressive downtown management , like that of lazarus brothers in columbus , ohio , can fight back successfully by building a garage on the lot next door .
and if the affection for the suburban branch reflects a desire to shop with `` nice people '' , rather than with the indiscriminate urban mass which supports the downtown department store , the central location may be in serious trouble .
the downtown store continues to offer the great inducement of variety , both within its gates and across the street , where other department stores are immediately convenient for the shopper who wants to see what is available before making up her mind .
department stores were built on dry goods , especially ladies' fashions , and in this area , in the long run , the suburban branches will be hard put to compete against downtown .
historically in america the appeal of cities has been their color and life , the variety of experience they offered .
though americans usually lived in groups segregated by national origin or religious belief , they liked to work and shop in the noise and vitality of downtown .
4 .
in their book , american skyline , christopher tunnard and henry hope reed argue that franklin roosevelt's new deal was what made the modern suburb a possibility -- a fine ironical argument , when you consider how suburbanites tend to vote .
at the same time , roosevelt's federal housing administration , coupled with henry morgenthau's cheap-money policy , permitted ordinary lower-middle-class families to build their own homes .
householders who had been unable to pick up the burden of short-term high-interest mortgages found they could borrow for twenty-five years at 4 per cent , under government aegis .
the artistic generation after brumidi was trained in the paris of that time to a more meticulous standard of execution , and tended to overlook greatness of conception where faults and weakness were easy to find .
the open ceiling , with allegorical and classical figures thrown in masses against the sky : the closed frieze , formally divided into historical scenes and tightly tied to the stone walls , belong in their large ordering to the line of correggio and his baroque followers .
constantino brumidi designed the decorative scheme as a whole , in collaboration with the architect charles u. walter , at the time when plans were being made to replace the wooden dome of bullfinch with the present much larger iron structure .
he left at his death sketches , drawn to scale , for the rest of the circle .
when costaggini had used up all the sketches thirty-six feet of empty frieze were left over .
then , advised by the architect of the capitol , the joint committee for the library , traditionally responsible for the works of art in the building , ordered the space cleared and painted in fresco , to show `` the peace after the civil war '' , `` the spanish-american war '' , and `` the birth of aviation '' , to match as nearly as feasible brumidi's technique and composition .
what follows is therefore a description of three separate undertakings , the new frescoing of the gap , and the successive essays in conservation , with some discussion of problems that arose in connection with each .
these may be consulted in the office of the architect of the capitol , or the library of congress .
it was decided to strip the whole area down to the bricks , and to replace the rough coats up to one inch thickness to agree with the older artists' preparation , with a mortar , one part slaked lime , three parts sand , to be put on in two layers .
there was some difficulty here .
moreover , all three representations must be squeezed comfortably into little more than the length brumidi allowed for each one of his .
the scaffolding , a confusion of heavy beams hanging from the gallery above , was strong and safe , but obscured visibility .
and we were able to decide on some amplification of scale .
later it was gratifying to note that they had set so solidly as to be hard to remove when the time came .
what bits of brumidi and costaggini could be reached at either end seemed in good order , though the roughish sandy surface was thick with dust .
it could be seen that both artists used a very thick final coat of plaster , one half inch , and that both followed the traditional italian fresco technique as described by cennino cennini in the 14th century , and current in italy to this day .
painting `` a secco '' is much in evidence .
this brown is sometimes so rich in medium as to appear to be oil paint .
the mortar was three parts sand to two of lime .
but to make it stiffer , of a really putty-like consistency to avoid cracking , we added a little hydrated lime -- hard on the hands , but we could see no other disadvantage .
as it was , it took the pigment well for six hours , enough for our purpose , and held it firmly in setting .
lime white , hard and brilliant , has a tendency to `` jump '' away from the other colors in drying , and also by its capacity to set , to preclude the use of ready-made gradations , so useful in decorative work .
for convenience we chose a stronger pigment , unknown to the early italians or to brumidi , titanium oxide , reserving the active lime white for highest lights , put on at the end of the day's stint .
this last was probably not in brumidi's palette , but was needed to take the chill , bluish look off the new work next to the old , where softening effects of time were seen , even after thorough cleaning .
experience showed , however , that it is very difficult to paint a dark umber background in fresco that will not dry out spotty and uneven .
we were forced , as they were , to work a good deal of tempera into background and dark areas .
ground together they made a strong adhesive , which became waterproof in drying .
the new part is finished .
where , of costaggini , only some foliage has been washed , at the point where his work stopped .
costaggini said it was brumidi's fault in not providing enough material to fill the circle .
this question might be settled by comparing the measurement of the actual circumference with the dimensions noted , presumably in brumidi's hand , above the various sections of his long preparatory drawing , which has been kept .
in painting a fresco , the handling of wet mortar compels one always to move from top to bottom and from left to right , not to spoil yesterday's work with today's plastering .
here he put a small man , whose missing hands might have left his function doubtful , until comparison with the first sketches showed that when the artist came back to the beginning , this was to be the closing figure of the party of `` forty-niners '' , and was to hold a basket .
the photograph , figure 1 of the completed frieze , shows how , having been separated from his fellows in useless isolation for eighty years , he has now been given a hand , and by juxtaposition ( and the permission of the committee ) , given a new job , to represent the witnesses of the first flight at kitty hawk in 1903 .
the fixed wooden scaffold was removed , and , so as to reach all the frieze , one of pipe , on wheels , built up from the floor .
on this giddy and oscillating platform over fifty feet from the floor , after a first dusting , we began to wash .
a valve in the handle let us cut the pressure still lower .
a second assistant mopped with two sponges .
no soap or other cleaning agent was used that might bring in unwanted chemical reactions .
a little of the `` secco '' came off .
altogether we found the craftsmanship first rate , especially brumidi's .
apparently not more than dusting had ever been done , and not much of that .
the greatest source of trouble was rain which had repeatedly flowed from openings above , soaking the surface and leaving streaks of dissolved lime , very conspicuous even after cleaning , particularly in the `` landing of columbus '' , `` oglethorpe and the indians '' , and `` yorktown '' .
these frescos have had no care for eighty years .
those whom i wish to address with this letter are for the most part unknown to me .
as american artists , it was natural that we would want to meet as many soviet artists as possible .
even though we did not see many of your faces , it appears now quite evident that a considerable number of your profession heard , from those whom we had the fortune to encounter , that we had been in your midst .
i can well understand your curiosity .
it is my hope that this written message and report will reach you through the good offices of the union of soviet artists .
pozzatti and i endeavored earnestly to record our impressions without the prejudice that the anxiety of our time so easily provokes .
too much damage is done by `` experts '' who have spent even less time , if any at all , in the u.s.s.r. .
if this attitude is seriously questioned in the soviet union , it does not necessarily follow that the majority of the society in which i live is too aware of the necessity for clarity on this ethical as well as aesthetic point of view .
i encountered many questions and great interest upon my return from the soviet union about my reactions to that experience .
almost as if i were talking about something quite unreal .
personal predispositions tend to blunt the ear and , in turn , the voice as well .
i am equally impatient with the shrug of the shoulder , shake of the head of those who no longer care because they have known it for so long ; ;
the belligerent denunciations by the sick fanatics of ignorance who try to build a papier-mache wall of pseudo-patriotism on our physical horizons .
artists and poets are the raw nerve-ends of humanity ; ;
by themselves they may not be able to save the life on this planet , but without them there would be very little left worth saving .
on that cold , but bright , april day we were guests of your government in the reviewing stand of red square to witness the poeple's celebration for yuri gagarin and later on that day we attended the somewhat more exclusive reception for him in one of the impressive palaces of the kremlin .
we stood under a gigantic tree in the rolling country just outside of moscow looking at silent flowers on the grave of a russian poet and writer who cherished the love for his country to the point of foregoing the highest international honor .
just yesterday we had met and talked with a living writer , a contemporary of the dead poet , who is known for his ability of manipulating his ideas and his craft more advantageously .
one had taken a flight into uncharted space , in the service of science , to return as a living hero .
the flowers on his grave attested to the fact that he as well was somebody's hero .
a struggle that is being waged all over the world in the half-light of disinterest .
the socialist environment , it was stated , had cross-fertilized these two extreme seeds and was about to produce a new plant and fruit .
i could not bring myself to answer that `` some of my best friends are non-propagating mules '' .
after a while we were perhaps less surprised , but still puzzled , when a friendly discussion would suddenly jump the track into the most irrelevant and illogical comparisons .
theories of the behavior pattern of population masses were compared to scientific discoveries concerning the motion-pattern of gaseous masses .
typical of such an experience was the occasion of a somewhat formal official welcome in the offices of the union of soviet artists .
instead , we became involved in a series of friendly , but overly formal , welcoming addresses to which we had no choice but to reply in kind .
i can only hope that the continuing exchange of groups and individuals between our countries will not wear out all language pertinent to the occasion .
it was only after we had responded , with what i fear were similar cliches , that she went into action by questioning our desire for friendship and understanding with a challenge about aggressive and warlike actions by the u.s. government in cuba and laos .
unfortunately she returned later , just as i had taken advantage of the friendlier atmosphere in the room by stating that perhaps an unexpected result of the cultural exchange program would be the re-emergence of abstract art in russia , with social realism regaining dominance in the u.s. .
she did not go so far as to say , as was done on other occasions , that abstraction as well as impressionism were a russian invention that had been discarded as unwanted by the people of the u.s.s.r.
pozzatti and i could not know then that we would experience this sort of treatment more often in moscow than elsewhere .
to have one's intentions deliberately or unintentionally misunderstood is always a waste of time .
artists simply do not talk to each other in that fashion ; ;
to save time , some clarification seemed necessary .
`` we have come to your land with the express intention of understanding and respecting your ideas and your ways .
we are quite convinced that one of the main hopes for the future depends upon the informal contacts and exchanges of ideas between individuals .
we are acutely aware that yours is a society which , in spite of several wars and many privations , has developed itself into one of the foremost nations of the world .
your present history is equally admirable for its industrial and scientific achievements .
while we , as american artists , believe deeply in the universal character of all intellectual activity , we would be less than honest with you , or ourselves , if we failed to state a specific attitude toward our own society as well as the international community as a whole .
as a matter of fact , we prize the diversity among our own people so much that we will not presume to speak for all other american artists .
like yourselves , we have pride and love for our country .
as artists we feel the same obligation , as do other individuals , in considering ourselves responsible citizens of a great nation .
its scope is as broad as the question : what does it mean to live in modern society ? ?
even a hasty reader will easily find in it numerous blind spots , errors of fact and argument , important exclusions , areas of ignorance and prejudice , undue emphases on trivia , examples of broad positions supported by flimsy evidence , and the like .
nor need the critic be captious .
it is a simple matter , for one so disposed , to take a work like the sane society and shred it into odds and ends .
that could be easily done , but there is little reason in it .
i mention these features of the book because they are inherent in the book's character and therefore must be mentioned .
there are more substantial criticisms to be made of fromm's account of capitalist civilization .
since i have already discussed his moral position , that discussion is incorporated by reference into the following pages , which will focus on the empirical and analytic side of fromm's treatment .
almost no empirical work has been done on the problem of alienation .
the idea has received much attention in philosophy , in literature , and in a few works of general social criticism , such as the sane society .
how widespread is alienation ? ?
taking alienation as a dependent variable , with what socio-structural factors is it most highly associated ? ?
until such work is done , there must remain the nagging suspicion that alienation may be little more than an expression of the malaise of the intellectual , who , rejected by and in turn rejecting the larger society , projects his own fear and despair onto the broader social screen .
nor do i think that alienation is nothing more than a projection of the malaise of the intellectual .
until such evidence appears , we must make do with the evidence we have .
three examples follow .
for all these points he relies exclusively on berle and means's study of 1932 , the modern corporation and private property .
fromm seems unaware of these developments .
moreover , the conclusions he draws from the findings are not always the only ones possible .
in the second study , the percentages were 86 for professionals , 74 for managerial persons , 42 for commercial employees , 56 for skilled workers , and 48 for semi-skilled workers .
starting from other value premises than fromm's , some analysts might conclude that the percentages really tell us very little at all , while others might even conclude that the figures are remarkably low .
what matters is that while fromm's reading of the data is not the only one possible , it is precisely the one we would expect from a writer who earnestly believes that every man can and ought to be happy and satisfied .
fromm says these data show that job dissatisfaction and resentment are widespread .
one might use such findings to indicate the strength of informal primary associations in the factory , an interpretation which would run counter to fromm's theory of alienation .
and today's trade unions announce pretty much the same view .
`` are people happy , are they as satisfied , unconsciously , as they believe themselves to be ? ?
the ambiguities suggested above stem from a more basic difficulty in fromm's style of thought .
sometimes he uses it as a subjective , descriptive term , and sometimes as an objective , diagnostic one .
the failure to keep these two usages distinct presents hazards to the reader .
when alienation is used as an objective and diagnostic category , for example , it becomes clear that fromm would have to say that awareness of alienation goes far toward conquering it .
) starting from this , and accepting his estimate of the iniquities of modern society , it would follow that the really disturbing evidence of alienation would be that of a work-satisfaction survey which reported widespread , stated worker satisfaction , rather than widespread , stated worker dissatisfaction .
thus , in the example cited above fromm rests his whole case on the premise that the workers are being deprived unconsciously , unknowingly , of fulfillment , and then supports this with survey data reporting conscious , experienced frustrations .
if they say they are satisfied , this shows unconscious alienation .
while the `` empirical psychoanalytic '' label which fromm claims sheds no light on the validity of his underlying philosophy , it does increase the marketability of his product .
in a brief chapter dealing with `` various other diagnoses '' , he quotes isolated passages from some writers whose views seem to corroborate his own , and finds it `` most remarkable that a critical view of twentieth-century society was already held by a number of thinkers living in the nineteenth .
there is nothing remarkable about this at all .
there is a difference between evidence and illustration , and fromm's citation of the other diagnosticians fits the latter category .
this is a delightfully motley collection .
the method of selection fromm uses achieves exactly that .
it omits , for example , practically the whole line of great nineteenth century english social critics , nearly all the great writers whose basic position is religious , and all those who are with more or less accuracy called existentialists .
these , almost by definition , are spokesmen for an alienated ideology .
turning from these problems of the use of evidence , one meets another type of difficulty in fromm's analysis , which is his loose and ambiguous use of certain important terms .
the only other one i shall mention here is his use of the term capitalism .
it is of course useful to have a sovereign cause on one's social criticism , for it makes diagnosis and prescription much easier than they might otherwise be .
much of this lifelike quality results from mussorgsky's care in basing his vocal line on natural speech inflections .
such composers as monteverdi , lully and purcell , with the same goal in mind , had developed styles of recitative sensitively attuned to their own languages .
giving most of his musical continuity to the orchestra , he lets the speech fall into place as if by coincidence , but controlling the pace and emphasis of the words .
otherwise mussorgsky reserves his vocal melodies for prolonged expressions of emotion -- boris' first monologue , for example .
aside from boris himself , one need but examine the secondary roles to place mussorgsky among the masters of musical portraiture .
consider the four monks who figure prominently in the action : pimen , varlaam , missail and the jesuit rangoni .
each musical setting has an individual touch .
his calmness offers contrast to grigori's youthful excitement .
this theme comes to represent the outer world , the realm of battles and banquets -- seen from a distance , quite distinct from the quieter spiritual life in the monastery .
it introduces pimen when he comes before boris in the last act .
an imaginative storyteller , pimen takes on the character he describes , as if he were experiencing the old shepherd's blindness and miraculous cure .
the original d minor seems to symbolize blindness , inescapable in spite of all attempts to move away from it .
varlaam and missail always appear together and often sing together , in a straightforward , rhythmically vigorous idiom that distinguishes them from the more subtle and well-educated pimen .
the same could be said for the song to which they make their entrance in the final scene .
whatever learning they may have had in their order doesn't disturb them now .
varlaam is loud , rowdy , uninhibited in his pleasures and impatient with anyone who is not the same .
the song of kazan , in which this figure becomes a wild-sounding accompaniment , fills in the picture of undisciplined high spirits .
( we can imagine how they startled audiences of the 1870's .
varlaam's music begins to ramble as he feels the effects of the wine , but he pulls himself together when the need arises .
a clever naturalistic touch is varlaam's labored reading of the warrant .
for the only time in the opera , words are not set according to their natural inflection ; ;
musically and dramatically , rangoni is as far removed from the conventional monk as varlaam .
his speech shows none of the native accent of the russian characters ; ;
his personality appears more striking by contrast with marina , who is -- perhaps purposely -- rather superficially characterized .
the effect is as if he had materialized out of nowhere .
he addresses marina with great deference , calling her `` princess '' at first ; ;
curiously , this scene is a close parallel to one that verdi was writing at the same time , the scene between amonasro and aida .
rangoni begins by describing the sad state of the church ; ;
the music becomes ethereal as he calls up a vision of her own sainthood : it is she , he tells her , who can bring the truth to russia and convert the heretics .
this is no assignment for a frivolous girl , she assures him .
it is a phrase as arresting as a magician's gesture , with a piquant turn of harmony giving an effect of strangeness .
coming from a priest , the music sounds as odd as the advice :
her pride is as much at stake as her virtue ; ;
indignantly she denounces rangoni for his evil thoughts and orders him to leave her .
to music of a menacing darkness , he describes the powers of satan gaining control of the girl , poisoning her soul with pride and destroying her beauty .
with another sudden change of mood , he is again calm and protective , exhorting her to trust and obey him as god's spokesman -- and the chromatic scale descends in ominous contradiction .
we are reminded of this at the end of the next scene , when his theme cuts through the warmth of the love duet , again throwing a chill over the atmosphere .
this is the real protagonist of the drama ; ;
mussorgsky makes this quite clear by the extent to which choral scenes propel the action .
we have a brief glimpse of the tsar's public personality , the `` official boris '' , but our real focus is on the excitement of the crowd -- a significant contrast with its halfhearted acclamation in the opening scene , its bitter resentment and fury in the final act .
it rarely speaks as a unit .
in many passages -- for example , the council of boyars -- each section of the chorus becomes a character group with a particular opinion .
the opening scene shows this method at its most individual .
they are held in control by force , but barely .
there is a quick change from the plaintive song to a conversational tone .
and mityukh , apparently the intellectual leader of the crowd , replies that he has no notion .
then the people strike up their song with even more fervor than before , ending it with a wail of despair .
in pimen's cell the soft prayers of the monks , heard from offstage , not only help to set the scene but emphasize the contrast between young grigori's thoughts and his situation .
again , as boris feels himself nearing death , a procession files into the hall singing a hymn , its modal harmonies adding a churchly touch to the grim atmosphere : the words are hardly calculated to put the tsar's mind at ease .
the living as well as the dead now accuse him ; ;
one of the outstanding assets of the present production is the restoration of the st. basil's scene , usually omitted from performances and rarely included in a published score .
in addition , it is an important link in the plot , giving us a revealing glimpse of the people's attitude toward boris and the false dimitri .
the st. basil's scene opens with little groups of beggars milling around the square , the ever present police keeping them under scrutiny .
the service is over , and a number of people come from the church with their spokesman mityukh in the lead .
this is met with scorn by the hearers , who claim that mityukh is lying or drunk .
) there is still more news , mityukh announces : they have prayed for the soul of the tsarevich .
for critics , hardy has had no poetic periods -- one does not speak of early hardy or late hardy , or of the london or max gate period , but simply of hardy , as of a poetic monolith .
`` seeing the moon rise '' is dated august , 1927 .
this is not , however , the case , and development is a term which we can apply to hardy only in a very limited sense .
though he struggled with philosophy all his life , he never got much beyond the pessimism of his twenties ; ;
and though in his later years he revised his poems many times , the revisions did not alter the essential nature of the style which he had established before he was thirty ; ;
there is only one sense in which it is valid to talk about hardy's development : he did develop toward a more consistent and more effective control of that tone which we recognize as uniquely his .
in the later poems , however , the personal tone predominates .
the bad late poems are bad hardy .
about a quarter of hardy's poems carry an appended date line , usually the year of completion , but sometimes inclusive years ( `` 1908 - 1910 '' ) or two separate dates when hardy worked on the poem ( `` 1905 and 1926 '' ) or an approximate date ( `` during the war '' ) .
with the exception of satires of circumstance , each volume contains dated poems ranging over several decades ( winter words spans sixty-one years ) ; ;
from the dated poems we can venture certain conclusions about hardy's career in poetry , always remembering that conclusions based on a fraction of the whole must remain tentative .
he had two productive periods , one in the late 1860's , the other in the decade from 1910 to 1920 ( half of the dated poems are from the latter period , and these alone total about one-tenth of all hardy's poems ) .
the dated poems also give us an idea of the degree to which hardy drew upon past productions for his various volumes , and therefore probably are an indication of the amount of poetry he was writing at the time .
satires of circumstance and moments of vision , coming during his most productive decade , are relatively self-contained ; ;
the last three volumes are again more dependent on the past , as hardy's creative powers declined in his old age .
the first productive period came when he was considering poetry as a vocation , before he had decided to write fiction for a living ( in his note for who's who he wrote that he `` wrote verses 1865 - 1868 ; ;
but resumed it later '' ) .
two entries in the early life support the assumption that during this period hardy had virtually suspended the writing of poetry .
and on christmas day , 1890 , hardy wrote : `` while thinking of resuming ' the viewless wings of poesy before dawn this morning , new horizons seemed to open , and worrying pettinesses to disappear '' ( early life , p. 302 ) .
after 1895 the number increases , and in the next thirty years there is only one year for which there is no dated poem -- 1903 , when hardy was at work on the dynasts .
the death of emma hardy in 1912 , which had a profound emotional effect on hardy for which he found release in poetry ; ;
it may seem strange that a poet should come to full fruition in his seventies , but we have it on hardy's own authority that `` he was a child till he was sixteen , a youth till he was five-and-twenty , and a young man till he was nearly fifty '' ( early life , p. 42 ) .
hardy's two productive decades were separated by forty years , yet between them he developed only in that he became more steadily himself -- it was a narrowing , not an expanding process .
the range of the later poetry is considerably narrower , but the number of successful poems is far greater .
there is not much to be said for `` revulsion '' .
almost anyone could have written it ; ;
the language is the conventional language of the form ; ;
it is smoother than hardy usually is , but with the smoothness of anonymity .
it asserts emotion without evoking it -- that is to say , it is sentimental .
`` neutral tones '' we immediately recognize as a fine poem in hardy's most characteristic style : the plain but not quite colloquial language , the hard , particular , colorless images , the slightly odd stanza-form , the dramatic handling of the occasion , the refusal to resolve the issue -- all these we have seen in hardy's best poems .
like an ominous bird a-wing '' , or `` wrings with wrong '' , or would describe a winter sun as `` god-curst '' .
`` neutral tones '' is an excellent example of hardy's mature style , drawn from his earliest productive period ; ;
in the poem we recognize and acknowledge one man's sense of the world ; ;
in `` revulsion '' , on the other hand , the pessimism is a case not proven ; ;
in the 1860 - 70 decade there are many poems like `` revulsion '' , but there is only one `` neutral tones '' .
the `` poems of 1912 - 13 '' offer a good example of hardy's style as it was manifested in the later productive decade .
they compose a painful elegy to what might have been , to a marriage that began with a promise of happiness , and ended in long years of suffering and hatred .
he sometimes called them `` an expiation '' , and he would not allow them to be published in periodicals .
the elegiac tone is hardy's natural tone of voice , and it is not surprising that the 1912 - 13 poems are consistently and unmistakably his .
but the mood is not quite nostalgic -- hardy would not allow sentiment to soften his sense of the irredeemable pastness of the past , and the eternal deadness of the dead .
the fire of love is dead , and hardy stands , as the speaker does in the last poem of the sequence , over the burnt circle of charred sticks , and thinks of past happiness and present grief , honest and uncomforted .
`` disaffiliation '' , by the way , is the term used by the critic and poet , lawrence lipton , who has written several articles on this subject , the first of which , in the nation , quoted as epigraph : `` we disaffiliate .
like the pillars of hercules , like two ruined titans guarding the entrance to one of dante's circles , stand two great dead juvenile delinquents -- the heroes of the post-war generation : the great saxophonist , charlie parker , and dylan thomas .
both of them were overcome by the horror of the world in which they found themselves , because at last they could no longer overcome that world with the weapon of a purely lyrical art .
living in san francisco i saw them seldom enough to see them with a perspective which was not distorted by exasperation or fatigue .
the last time i saw bird , at jimbo's bob city , he was so gone -- so blind to the world -- that he literally sat down on me before he realized i was there .
i said , referring to the pretentious `` jazz concert '' .
about dawn he got up to blow .
the last time i saw dylan , his self-destruction had not just passed the limits of rationality .
being with him was like being swept away by a torrent of falling stones .
as artists , they were very similar .
but this fluent , enchanting utterance had , compared with important artists of the past , relatively little content .
the principal theme of thomas's poetry was the ambivalence of birth and death -- the pain of blood-stained creation .
both of them did communicate one central theme : against the ruin of the world , there is only one defense -- the creative act .
it is the theme of horace , who certainly otherwise bears little resemblance to parker or thomas .
to dylan and bird it was an agony and terror .
i believe rather that it is due to the catastrophic world in which that creativity seemed to be the sole value .
art may have been for him the most enduring , orderly , and noble activity of man .
they did not actively negate them .
he was able to find meaning in his art as long as it was the answer to air raids and gas ovens .
i think all this could apply to parker just as well , although , because of the nature of music , it is not demonstrable -- at least not conclusively .
in the practice of their art , there is an obvious technical resemblance .
their effects are only superficially startling .
similarly , the innovations of bop , and of parker particularly , have been vastly overrated by people unfamiliar with music , especially by that ignoramus , the intellectual jitterbug , the jazz aficionado .
and there is less rhythmic difference between progressive jazz , no matter how progressive , and dixieland , than there is between two movements of many conventional symphonies .
this is true of the melodic line which could be put together from selected passages of almost anybody -- benny carter , johnny hodges .
this is exactly what happened in the transition from baroque to rococo music .
it is not a farfetched analogy to say that this is what thomas did to poetry .
the metaphysical conceits , which fascinate the reactionary generation still dominant in backwater american colleges , were embroideries .
the immediate theme , if it exists , is incidental , and his main theme -- the terror of birth -- is simply reiterated .
again , contrary to popular belief , there is nothing crazy or frantic about parker either musically or emotionally .
emotionally it does not resemble berlioz or wagner ; ;
this is true also of a painter like jackson pollock .
partly this difference is due to the nature of verbal communication .
it is much more a personal difference .
parker and pollock wanted to substitute a work of art for the world .
in modern jazz , the saxophone is treated as a woodwind and played with conventional embouchure .
i want to make clear what i consider the one technical development in the first wave of significant post-war arts .
a poem by dylan thomas , a saxophone solo by charles parker , a painting by jackson pollock -- these are pure confabulations as ends in themselves .
uninhibited lyricism should be distinguished from its exact opposite -- the sterile , extraneous invention of the corn-belt metaphysicals , or present blight of poetic professors .
in fact , his only disciple -- the only person to imitate his style -- was w. s. graham , who seems to have imitated him without much understanding , and who has since moved on to other methods .
parker certainly had much more of an influence .
even before his death this influence had begun to ebb .
the main line of development today goes back to lester young and by-passes them .
there is no longer any sense of continuing development of the sort that can be traced from baudelaire to eluard , or for that matter , from hawthorne through henry james to gertrude stein .
i doubt if anyone holds such ideas today .
in the plastic arts , a very similar situation exists .
but it is obvious that they were self-deluded .
nothing looks less like their work than the happenings of random occasion .
the aesthetic appeal of pure paint laid on at random may exist , but it is a very impoverished appeal .
it is curious that at its best , the work of this school of painting -- mark rothko , jackson pollock , clyfford still , robert motherwell , willem de-kooning , and the rest -- resembles nothing so much as the passage painting of quite unimpressive painters : the mother-of-pearl shimmer in the background of a henry mcfee , itself a formula derived from renoir ; ;
often work of this sort is presented as calligraphy -- the pure utterance of the brush stroke seeking only absolute painteresque values .
at its best the abstract expressionists achieve a simple rococo decorative surface .
a tiepolo painting , however confabulated , is a universe of tensions in vast depths .
in fact , once the size is big enough to cover a whole wall , it turns into nothing more than extremely expensive wallpaper .
there is just more to tiepolo .
a process of elimination which leaves the artist with nothing but the play of his materials themselves cannot sustain interest in either artist or public for very long .
anglo-saxon and greek epic each provide on two occasions a seemingly authentic account of the narration of verse in the heroic age .
alcinous' court bard sings of the discovered adultery of ares and aphrodite ( odyssey 8 266-366 ) , and takes up a tale of odysseus while the ithacan wanderer listens on ( odyssey 8 499-520 ) .
the poet of the odyssey , reputed blind , reveals himself not at all in singing of the blind minstrel demodocus .
that such a tradition lies behind the iliad and the odyssey , at least , is hard to deny .
he further reasoned that frequent formulas in epic verse indicate oral composition , and assumed the slightly less likely corollary that oral epic is inclined towards the use of formulas .
yet a fresh inspection will indicate one crucial amendment : beowulf and the homeric poems are not at all formulaic to the same extent .
assonance seems nearly as severe a curb , although in a celebrated passage william of malmesbury declares that a song of roland was intoned before the battle commenced at hastings .
the verse of beowulf or of the iliad and the odyssey was not easy to create but was not impossible for poets who had developed their talents perforce in earning a livelihood .
the poet in a written tradition who generally never blots a line may once in a while pause and polish without incurring blame .
he must improvise continuously with no apparent effort .
the germanic poet had such aids in the kennings , which provided for the difficulties of alliteration ; ;
either poet could quickly and easily select words or phrases to supply his immediate requirements as he chanted out his lines , because the kennings and the epithets made possible the construction of systems of numerous synonyms for the chief common and proper nouns .
verbal and adverbial elements too participated in each epic diction , but it is for the present sufficient to mark the large nominal and adjectival supply of semantic near-equivalents , and to designate the members of any system of equivalents as basic formulas of the poetic language .
but we can say that since a writing poet , with leisure before him , would seem unlikely to invent a technique based upon frequent and substantial circumlocution , the kennings like the epithets must reasonably be ascribed to an oral tradition .
any example of grand or exquisite diction may have been created by the poet who compiled numerous lays into the two works we possess or may be due to one of his completely unknown fellow-craftsmen .
no individual word in the iliad or the odyssey can be credited to any one man ; ;
this observation is of interest not only to students of homeric poetry but to students of anglo-saxon poetry as well .
combellack argues further , and here he makes his main point , that once the iliad and the odyssey are thought formulaic poems composed for an audience accustomed to formulaic poetry , homeric critics are deprived of an entire domain they previously found arable .
words or phrases that connoisseurs have admired as handsome or ironic or humorous must therefore lose merit and become regarded as mere inevitable time-servers , sometimes accurate and sometimes not .
to the extent that a language is formulaic , its individual components must be regarded as no more distinguished than other cliches .
if the master of scops who was most responsible for the poem ever used kennings that were traditional , he was at least partly deprived of free will and not inclined towards shrewd and sophisticated misuse of speech elements .
it is false to be certain of having discovered in the language of beowulf such effects as intentional irony .
a formulaic element need not be held meaningless merely because it was selected with little conscious reflection .
a long evolution in an oral tradition caused the poetic language of the heroic age to be based upon formulas that show the important qualities of things , and these formulas are therefore potentially rather than always actually accurate .
nouns and adjectives in a written tradition are chosen for the nonce ; ;
reliance is therefore not to be placed upon the archaeological particulars in an oral poem ; ;
a ship at dry-dock could be called a foamy-necked floater in anglo-saxon or a swift ship in greek .
achilles , like siegfried in the nibelungenlied , is potentially the swiftest of men and may accordingly be called swift-footed even when he stands idle .
the epic language was not entirely the servant of the poet ; ;
the poet's intentions are difficult to discern and , except to biographers , unimportant ; ;
beowulf and the homeric poems appear oral compositions .
at some stage in their evolution they were transcribed .
this explanation is attractive , but is vitiated at least in part by the observation that cynewulf , though he used kennings in the traditional manner , was a literate man who four times inscribed his name by runes into his works .
in lieu of the amanuensis to the blind or illiterate bard , one may conceive of a man who heard a vast store of oral poetry recited , and became intimately familiar with the established aids to poetizing , and himself wrote his own compositions or his edition of the compositions of the past .
the account of the growth and final transcription of these epics rests partly , however , upon the degree to which they were formulaic .
thus one line in five from the iliad and the odyssey is to be found somewhere else in the two poems .
anglo-saxon poetry appears to have no comparable amount of repetition ; ;
in determining the extent to which any poem is formulaic it is idle , however , to inspect nothing besides lines repeated in their entirety , for a stock of line-fragments would be sufficient to permit the poet to extemporize with deftness if they provided for prosodic needs .
if any words or phrases are formulaic , they will be .
recent criticism of great expectations has tended to emphasize its symbolic and mythic content , to show , as m. d. zabel has said of dickens generally , that much of the novel's impact resides in its `` allegoric insight and moral metaphor '' .
in his analysis , however , he touches upon but fails to explore an idea , generally neglected in discussions of the book , which i believe is central to its art -- the importance of human hands as a recurring feature of the narrative .
dickens was not for nothing the most theatrical of the great victorian writers .
it is hardly accidental , therefore , that many of his most vivid figures do suggestive or eccentric things with their hands .
mr. jaggers habitually bites his forefinger , a gesture which conveys both contempt and the inscrutable abstractedness that half fascinates , half terrifies all who have dealings with him .
pumblechook's `` signature '' is the perpetually extended glad hand .
old mr. pocket's frantic response to life imprisonment with a useless , social-climbing wife is to `` put his two hands into his disturbed hair '' and `` make an extraordinary effort to lift himself up by it '' , whereas joe gargery endures the shrewish onslaughts of mrs. joe by apologetically drawing `` the back of his hand across and across his nose '' .
dickens not only reveals character through gesture , he makes hands a crucial element of the plot , a means of clarifying the structure of the novel by helping to define the hero's relations with all the major characters , and a device for ordering such diverse themes as guilt , pursuit , crime , greed , education , materialism , enslavement ( by both people and institutions ) , friendship , romantic love , forgiveness , and redemption .
so it is with great expectations , whether the hands be orlick's as he strikes down mrs. gargery or pip's as he steals a pie from her pantry .
the novel opens with a fugitive convict frantically trying to avoid the nemesis of being `` laid hands on '' -- a mysterious figure who looks into pip's frightened eyes in the churchyard `` as if he were eluding the hands of the dead people , stretching up cautiously out of their graves , to get a twist upon his ankle and pull him in '' .
as pip agonizes over the theft that his own hands have committed , his guilty conscience projects itself upon the wooden finger of a local signpost , transforming it into `` a phantom devoting me to the hulks '' .
later he flees in panic from the family table just as his theft is about to be discovered and is blocked at the front door by a soldier who accusingly holds out a pair of handcuffs which he has brought to gargery's forge for mending .
since they commonly translate thoughts and feelings into deeds , hands naturally represent action , and since nearly half the characters in great expectations are of the underworld or closely allied to it , the linking of hands with crime or violence is not to be wondered at .
orlick slouches about the forge `` like cain '' with `` his hands in his pockets '' , and when he shouts abuse at mrs. joe for objecting to his holiday , she claps her hands in a tantrum , beats them `` upon her bosom and upon her knees '' , and clenches them in her husband's hair .
pip himself is to feel the terror of orlick's `` murderous hand '' in his secret rendezvous at the sluicehouse on the marshes .
orlick shakes his hand at pip , bangs the table with his fist , draws his unclenched hand `` across his mouth as if his mouth watered '' for his victim , lets his hands hang `` loose and heavy at his sides '' , and pip observes him so intensely that he knows `` of the slightest action of his fingers '' .
the scarred , disfigured wrists of mr. jaggers' housekeeper are the tell-tale marks of her sinister past , for her master , coolly exhibiting them to his dinner guests , makes a point of the `` force of grip there is in these hands '' .
it is the similarity between estella's hands and molly's ( `` the action of her fingers was like the action of knitting '' ) that provides pip with a vital clue to the real identity of both and establishes a symbolic connection between the underworld of crime and the genteel cruelty of satis house .
magwitch's hand here ironically becomes the agent of justice .
money , so important a theme elsewhere in dickens , is here central , and hands are often associated in some way with the false values -- acquisitiveness , snobbery , self-interest , hypocrisy , toadyism , irresponsibility , injustice -- that attach to a society based upon the pursuit of wealth .
pip's great expectations , his progress through illusion and disillusionment , turn , somewhat as they do for the naive hero of dreiser's american tragedy , upon the lure of genteel prosperity through unearned income -- what wemmick calls `` portable property '' and what jaggers reproaches pip for letting `` slip through ( his ) fingers '' .
almost the first step in the corruption of pip's values is the unworthy shame he feels when estella cruelly remarks the coarseness of his hands : `` they had never troubled me before , but they troubled me now , as vulgar appendages '' .
when the snobbery that alienates pip from joe finally gives way before the deeper and stronger force of love , the reunion is marked by an embarrassed handshake at which pip exclaims : `` no , don't wipe it off -- for god's sake , give me your blackened hand '' ! !
when , on the journey to london that immediately follows , he pauses nostalgically to lay his hand upon the finger-post at the end of the village , the wooden pointer symbolically designates a spiritual frontier between innocence and the corruption of worldly vanity .
in both cases the finger-post represents pip's heightened awareness of contrary magnetisms .
the vulture-like attendance of the pocket family upon miss havisham is summed up in the hypocritical gestures of miss camilla pocket , who puts her hand to her throat in a feigned spasm of grief-stricken choking , then lays it `` upon her heaving bosom '' with `` an unnatural fortitude of manner '' , and finally kisses it to miss havisham in a parody of the lady's own mannerism toward estella .
we first see him shaking mrs. joe's hand on discovering the sizable amount of the premium paid to her husband for pip's indenture as an apprentice and later pumping pip's hands `` for the hundredth time at least '' ( `` may i -- may i -- '' ? ?
we take leave of pumblechook as he gloats over pip's loss of fortune , extending his hand `` with a magnificently forgiving air '' and exhibiting `` the same fat five fingers '' , one of which he identifies with `` the finger of providence '' and shakes at pip in a canting imputation of the latter's `` ingratitoode '' and his own generosity as pip's `` earliest benefactor '' .
the respectability which money confers implies a different etiquette , and , upon taking up the life of a london gentleman , pip must learn from herbert pocket that `` the spoon is not generally used over-hand , but under '' .
the declarative operation equ is used to equate symbolic names to item numbers ( see page 85 ) .
certain autocoder statements make provision for more parameters than may be contained in the operand ( columns 21 - 75 ) of a single line on the autocoder coding sheet .
thus , when specifically permitted , the operand of a given line on the autocoder coding sheet may be continued in the operand of from one to four additional lines which immediately follow .
i.e. , it must be left-justified in the operand column of the coding sheet .
remarks may appear to the right of the last parameter on each card provided they are separated from the operand by at least two blank spaces .
if a continuation card follows a statement that does not permit continuation cards , the compiler will generate a nop and issue an error message .
reservation of index words and electronic switches
the initial availability of index words and electronic switches is determined by a table which is included in the compiler systems tape .
index words 97 through 99 are not available .
during the first pass of phase 3 , , references to the actual addresses of index words and electronic switches are collected and the availability table is updated .
both index words and electronic switches may have been made unavailable before the start of assignment in one of the following ways .
the initial setting of the availability table indicated that the index word or electronic switch was not available for assignment .
the one- or two-digit number of the index word or electronic switch was used in the operand of a symbolic machine instruction to specify indexing or as a parameter which is always an index word or electronic switch , e.g. , 3 .
when the index words or electronic switches are reserved because of actual usage in the statements described above , the position or order of the statements within the program is not important ; ;
during the assignment pass of phase 3 , , index words and electronic switches are reserved as they are encountered during assignment .
the first two methods apply to both index words and electronic switches ; ;
1 .
when such a reference is found , an actual address is assigned and the availability table is changed so that the assigned index word or switch is no longer available for later assignment .
if the one- or two-digit address of an index word or electronic switch is used or is included in the operand of an xreserve or sreserve statement ( see page 99 ) , the corresponding index word or electronic switch is reserved .
if a statement has been assigned an address in the index word area
by means of an origin statement which refers to an actual address , the corresponding index word will be reserved .
otherwise , symbolic names may have previously been assigned to these same index words .
)
extreme caution should be used , however , to avoid the conflicting usage of an index word or electronic switch which may result from the assignment of more than one name or function to the same address .
it will not , however , be used for symbolic assignment until all other index words or electronic switches have been assigned for the first time .
if the compiler finds that there are no more electronic switches available for assignment , the warning message `` no more electronic switches available '' will be placed in the object program listing , the table will be altered to show that electronic switches 1 through 30 are available , and assignment will continue as before .
as noted in appendix c , index words 97 through 99 are never available for assignment to symbolic names by the compiler ; ;
declarative statements
declarative statements are never executed in the object program and should be separated from the program instruction area , placed preferably at its beginning or end .
if the compiler does encounter such statements , a warning message will be issued .
da , dc , dtf , and dline require more than one entry .
the dc statement is used to name and enter constants into the object program .
when so instructed , autocoder will generate one or more rdws and assign them successive locations immediately preceding the area with which they are to be associated .
these addresses are calculated automatically by the processor .
the drdw statement may be used for this purpose .
as many as ten digital switches may be named and provided by the dsw statement for consideration by the setsw and logic macro-instructions .
it cannot , however , be referred to by electronic switch commands , e.g. , esn , bsn , etc. .
through use of the dline statement , a means is provided for specifying both the editing of fields to be inserted in a print line area and the layout of the area itself .
the area may also be provided with additional data during the running of the object program by means of edmov or move macro-instructions .
the diocs , dtf , and duf statements are used when required by the input/output control system .
each tape file must be described by tape file specifications , produced by aj .
a duf entry must be supplied for every unit record file describing the type of file and the unit record equipment to be used .
a full description of the diocs , dtf , and duf statements is contained in the 7070 data processing system bulletin `` ibm 7070 input/output control system '' , form aj .
diocs -- define input/output control system
this statement also allows the naming of the index words used by aj .
the basic format of the diocs statement is as follows : anylabel is any symbolic label ; ;
the entry diocs must be written exactly as shown .
this item may be a symbolic name or an actual one-digit or two-digit index word address in the range 3 - 94 .
when an actual index word or a symbolic address is specified , autocoder will equate the name iocsixf to it .
this item may be a symbolic name or an actual one-digit or two-digit index word address in the range 3 - 94 .
when an actual index word or a symbolic address is specified , autocoder will equate iocsixg to it .
the high cost of land and a few operational problems resulting from excessive loadings have created the need for a wastewater treatment system with the operational characteristics of the oxidation pond but with the ability to treat more organic matter per unit volume .
since experience indicates that effluents from oxidation ponds do not create major problems at these bod concentrations , the goal for the effluent quality of the accelerated treatment system was the same as from conventional oxidation ponds .
their study showed that it was possible to transfer 3 to 4 lb of oxygen / hr. / hp.
o'connor and eckenfelder discussed the use of aerated lagoons for treating organic wastes .
later , eckenfelder increased the efficiency of treatment to between 75 and 85 per cent in the summer months .
red bridge subdivision
the sewage system from kansas city was not expected to serve the red bridge area for several years .
for the initial development an oxidation pond was constructed as shown in figure 1 .
the pond is currently serving 1,230 persons or 260 persons per acre .
it was possible to maintain aerobic conditions in the pond by regular additions of sodium nitrate until the temperature decreased and the algae population changed from blue-green to green algae .
at the same time further expansion in the red bridge subdivision required the construction of additional sewage treatment facilities .
it was proposed that aerated lagoons be used to eliminate the problem at the existing oxidation ponds and to provide the necessary treatment for the additional development .
the lack of adequate data on the aerated lagoon system prompted the developer to construct an aerated lagoon pilot plant to determine its feasibility for treating domestic sewage .
the side slopes were coated with fiberglas matting coated with asphalt to prevent erosion .
the major contributor was a shopping center with houses being added to the system as the subdivision developed .
initially , the wastewater would be entirely from the shopping center with the domestic sewage from the houses increasing over an 18-month period .
the pilot plant was equipped with a 3-hp. turbine aerator ( figure 2 ) .
the sewage flow into the treatment plant was metered and continuously recorded on 24-hr. charts .
the effluent was collected through two pipes and discharged to the blue river through a surface drainage ditch .
composite samples were collected at weekly intervals .
weekly samples would make any changes more readily discernible than daily samples .
examination of the operations of the shopping center permitted correlation of the 6-hr. composite samples with 24-hr. operations .
grab samples were collected from the existing oxidation pond to determine its operating conditions .
a single 24-hr. composite sample indicated that the sewage flow pattern and characteristics were typical .
the bod of the influent to the pilot plant varied between 110 and 710 mg/l with an average of 350 aj .
the bod of the raw sewage was typical of domestic sewage from a subdivision .
examination of the data in table 1 , shows that a few samples contributed to raising the effluent aj .
ice caused the aerator to overload , straining the drive belts .
the organic loading on the unit averaged 32 lb of bod/day or about 2 lb bod/day/1,000 cu ft aeration capacity .
it seems that the aerated lagoon was a very heavily loaded oxidation pond or a lightly loaded activated sludge system .
with the spring rains the flow rose rapidly due to infiltration in open sewers .
the retention period in the aerated lagoon ranged from 9.8 to 2.6 days , averaging 6.4 days .
the vegetables were not readily metabolized by the bacteria in the aeration unit and tended to float on the surface .
the average volatile suspended solids in the effluent was 75 mg/l while mlss averaged 170 mg/l volatile suspended solids .
the oxygen uptake rate in the mixed liquor averaged 0.8 mg/l/hr during the first four months of this study .
the increase in oxygen uptake rates from 1.2 to 2.6 mg/l/hr which followed an increase in rotor speed was believed to be related to resuspension of solids which had settled at the lower rotor speeds .
the suspended solids discharged in the effluent were found to be the major source of the aj .
the bod in the drainage ditch receiving the pilot plant effluent averaged 12 aj .
microscopic examination
it was found that the aerated lagoon was an activated sludge system rather than an oxidation pond .
the bacteria formed typical activated sludge floc .
initially , the flagellated protozoa predominated , but they soon gave way to the free swimming ciliated protozoa .
very little protozoa activity existed below 40-degrees-f .
but as the temperature rose , the numbers of protozoa increased rapidly .
the predomination of free swimming ciliated protozoa is indicative of a high bacterial population .
one of the important aspects of this study was to determine the oxygen transfer relationships of the mechanical aerator .
the data given in table 2 , show the routine operation of the aerator .
an extended cold spell caused ice to build up on the aerator which was mounted on a floating platform and caused the entire platform to sink lower in the water .
it was approximately one month before the belt problem was noticed and corrected , but at no time was there a deficiency of dissolved oxygen .
five of the tests were conducted with a polyethylene cover to simulate an ice cover .
the maximum rate of oxygen transfer at 1.0 mg/l dissolved oxygen was calculated as 220 lb/day at a maximum rate of 9.3 aj .
the polyethylene cover reduced the oxygen transfer rate by 10 per cent , indicating that the maximum oxygen transfer is at the rotor rather than through the surface .
during this study septic conditions developed in the oxidation pond in the spring when the ice melted .
the location of the oxidation pond in a high-value residential area makes odor nuisances a sensitive problem for the developer .
the bod data are given in table 4 .
the daily sewage volume to the oxidation pond averaged 147,000 gpd , giving a retention period of 42 days .
the effluent bod averaged 34 mg/l , a little lower than that of the study at fayette indicated for a loading of 60 lb. aj .
microscopic examination of the effluent showed that minimum bod occurred when the algae began to decrease with cold weather .
during the two weeks when the algae disappeared from the effluent bod's in the effluent were 18 and 16 aj .
the last category overlaps the others in amphibious operations and near terminals and bases .
surface forces have been used to provide defense zones around naval and merchant ship formations , air to furnish area surveillance , and mines for protection of limited areas .
the submarine now has a definite place in submarine defense particularly in denying enemy access to ocean areas .
mine warfare is being reoriented against submarine targets .
it includes operational intelligence of the enemy and knowledge of the environment .
intelligence on the environment will come from the recently augmented program in oceanography .
necessity for an over-all concept
proponents of single elements tend to ensure predominance of that element without determining if it is justified , and the element with the most enthusiastic and vociferous proponents has assumed the greatest importance .
these have sought more and more of what they have .
this , despite postwar experience demonstrating that all elements are necessarily mutually supporting .
this is stated to emphasize the necessity for an over-all concept of submarine defense , one which would provide positions of relative importance to asw elements based on projected potentialities .
an over-all concept would have other advantages .
now the problem is presented piecemeal and sometimes contradictorily .
the result can only be confusion in the public mind .
industry's main criticism of the navy's antisubmarine effort is that it cannot determine where any one company or industry can apply its skills and know-how .
the result , coupled with the salesmanship for which american industry is famous , is considerable expenditure of funds and efforts in marginal areas .
therefore , a broad concept of over-all submarine defense is needed for co-ordination of the navy's efforts , for a logical presentation to the public , for industry's guidance , and as a basis for a program to the congress .
that which follows will be a discussion of principles and possible content for an over-all concept of antisubmarine warfare .
some are also in albania and others are on loan to egypt .
communist target areas can be assumed , but there is no certainty that such assumptions coincide with soviet intentions .
logically , then , the first principle of the plan must be that it is not rigidly oriented toward any geographical area .
destruction of the enemy's building and base complex , however , requires attacks on enemy territory , which is possible only in event of all-out hostilities .
the communists are adept at utilizing hostilities short of general war and will do so whenever it is to their advantage .
antisubmarine warfare does not involve clashes between large opposing forces , with the decision a result of a single battle .
this exchange must result in our ending up with some effective units .
therefore , the third principle of the plan must be that it does not depend for effectiveness on engagement by the same types , unless at an assured favorable exchange rate .
its speed has increased , it operates at increasingly greater depths , its submerged endurance is becoming unlimited , and it will become even more silent .
the missile can gradually be expected to replace the torpedo .
therefore , the fourth principle of the plan must be that it provide for continuously increasing capabilities in the opponent .
some elements support the others , but all have limitations .
elements used in combination will increase the over-all capability more than the sum of the capabilities of the individual elements .
conceivably the submarine defense problem can be solved by sufficient forces .
shipbuilding , aircraft procurement , and weapon programs indicate that there will not be enough of anything .
therefore , the sixth principle of the plan must be that it concentrate on current measures which will reduce future force requirements .
what was new yesterday is obsolescent today .
it must be flexible enough to allow for technological breakthroughs , scientific progress , and changes in world conditions .
to this point the need for an over-all plan for submarine defense has been demonstrated , the mission has been stated , broad principles delineating its content laid down , and the supporting elements listed .
large area coverage will accomplish all other tasks .
but it must be remembered that the plan should not be oriented geographically .
since effective area coverage appears fairly remote , the requirement can be borne in mind while considering the elements : air , surface , sub-surface , fixed installations , mines , and intelligence .
intelligence , as used herein , will include information on possible opponents and on the environment which can affect operations .
in submarine defense these must have maximum stress .
environmental intelligence is just as important .
full knowledge of the science of oceanography can bring the environment to our side , resulting in an increase in effectiveness of equipment and tactics , a decrease in enemy capabilities , and the development of methods of capitalizing on the environment .
gathering intelligence is important , but of equal importance is its translation into usable form .
approaching this problem on a statistical basis is invalid , because the opponent has the same sources available and will be encountered not under average conditions , but under the conditions most advantageous to him .
all capabilities must be used to maximum advantage then .
there may be others .
these variations must eventually be measured horizontally as well as vertically .
a concurrent effort is needed to make oceanographic data useful on the spot .
by its nature it has always been of great psychological advantage and small efforts have required considerably greater counter-efforts .
they are still considered to be for use in restricted waters , however , and targets must come within a few yards of them .
mines can be used to deny access to great areas ; ;
a most attractive feature is that detection and attack are combined in a single package .
for example , effective mine barriers from florida to cuba and across the yucatan channel from cuba to mexico would remove all requirements for harbor defense , inshore patrol , convoy escort , shipping control , and mine defense for the entire gulf of mexico .
systems covering the gulf of st. lawrence and possibly the entire coasts of the united states are not impossible .
the advantages inherent in mine warfare justify as great an importance for this element as is accorded any of the other elements .
the proponents are scientific and technical men who exercise considerable influence on their military counterparts .
mobile forces are required to localize and attack detected targets , since the systems are not capable of pinpointing a target .
in an over-all asw concept , dependence on and effort expended for such systems should be limited to those with proven capabilities .
in addition , proposals for fixed installations should be carefully weighed against a counterpart mobile system .
the submarine has become increasingly attractive as an antisubmarine weapon system .
but the submarine is a weapon of ambush and therefore always in danger of being ambushed .
the 7 carbons of paba are incorporated directly into metabolite 2 ( ( as shown with both ring-labeled and carboxy-labeled af ) .
all 28 carbons of metabolite 1 ( ( a product of mild acid hydrolysis of 2 ) arise from aj .
vigorous acid hydrolysis of metabolite 1 , destroyed the biological activity of the compound and liberated two aryl amines .
preliminary evidence tentatively indicates that the molecule ( metabolite 1 ) ) is cleaved at a secondary amide bond .
chemical studies are being pursued with the cooperation of k.g. untch .
-- research on esterases in mammalian sera was continued .
the inhibition of the enzyme by very low concentrations of lanthanum ion is probably the strongest known biological effect of rare earth salts .
the effects can be related to the structure of this enzyme .
furthermore , the hydrolysis of paraoxon was studied in mammalian sera , and it was found that it is hydrolyzed by albumin ( or a factor attached to it ) in addition to arylesterase .
investigations on the acceleration of human plasma cholinesterase were carried further .
-- electron-microscopical and physical-chemical methods were used to demonstrate the renaturation of heat-denatured collagen and ribonucleic acid .
a method was devised for extracting and purifying soluble earthworm collagen ( ewc ) .
this unusual collagen also was shown to undergo a reversible thermal phase transformation .
-- this investigation involved several aspects .
high-voltage electrophoresis and paper chromatography were used in preliminary structural studies ; ;
special equipment required for registering respiration and for recording the contraction of smooth muscles under various conditions was developed by the instruments section ( victor jackman , w. c. barnes , j. f. reiss ) ; ;
experiments are in progress to develop ultraviolet spectrophotometric techniques for assaying these enzymes and for studying their sensitivity to metal ions .
-- in a physiochemical study of seed proteins , the globulins of the brazil nut have been investigated .
a water-soluble protein of quite low molecular weight ( ca. 10,000 ) has also been found in this system and partly characterized .
continuum mechanics and viscoelasticity
-- on the basis of a differentiability assumption in function space , it is possible to prove that , for materials having the property that the stress is given by a functional of the history of the deformation gradients , the classical theory of infinitesimal viscoelasticity is valid when the deformation has been infinitesimal for all times in the past .
in the second-order theory , one of the normal stress differences can be calculated from the first-order stress relaxation function .
-- an extensive series of measurements was made on a high-density polyethylene in a torsion pendulum instrument using forced sinusoidal oscillation , free vibration , and creep measurements over the temperature range of af to 80-degrees-c .
the simple time-temperature equivalence valid for many amorphous systems did not hold here .
( hershel markovitz , d.j. plazek , haruo nakayasu )
trace elements in tektites , meteorites , and related materials
the gallium / germanium ratio is higher than that for ordinary igneous , metamorphic , or sedimentary matter as a result of selective volatilization of the components of the tektite .
australites ( tektites from australia ) give the appearance of a second melting .
the silicate fractions of stony meteorites show gallium / germanium ratios similar to those of tektites because they too have undergone melting at some point in their histories .
the gallium content , however , has been enhanced five-fold .
nickel-iron meteorites with sufficient kinetic energy to produce large terrestrial explosion craters may nevertheless melt only small quantities of material .
when rapid quenching follows melting , impact glasses may result .
impact glasses not containing elemental nickel-iron may have been produced by stony meteorites or comets .
this crater contains impact glass with no metallic inclusions and no meteoritic material has been recovered .
inorganic chemistry
by applying this general principle , a great number of complex compounds of osmium , ruthenium , iridium , and rhenium , with triphenylphosphine , triphenylarsine , and triphenylstibine have been obtained in this laboratory during the past few years .
recent work with radiocarbon and deuterated alcohols as solvents , however , has given evidence that metal-hydrido and carbonyl complexes may be readily formed by reaction with alcohol in some of these systems .
the coordination complexes formed by transition metals with primary and secondary phosphines and arsines are being investigated ( r. g. hayter ) .
during the past year , these ligands have yielded some unusual five-coordinate complexes of nickel ( 2 ) and some interesting binuclear phosphorus-bridged complexes of palladium ( 2 ) ( see figure ) , as well as new compounds of the well-known type af .
in another study chromium-substituted aluminum oxyhydroxides and related species , prepared homogeneously by high-temperature hydrolysis , are being characterized and investigated spectrally in the ultraviolet region with a view to identification and semiquantitative estimation of the phases formed under varying preparative conditions .
structure and properties of macromolecules
-- the theory of elasticity of gaussian networks has been developed on a more general basis and the equations of state relating variables of pressure , volume , temperature , stress and strain have been precisely formulated .
the various stress-temperature coefficients for constancy of volume and strain , constancy of pressure and strain , and constancy of pressure and length have been interrelated .
in continuation of these theoretical studies , a more precise elucidation of the effects of imperfections in network structure is sought .
-- recent theoretical work to calculate the dimensions of polymeric chains by volkenstein and lifson has been extended to include more general types of chains .
these studies are being extended to different polymers to increase our knowledge about the hindrances to rotation around chain bonds .
-- the crystallization of copolymers comprising af units interspersed with a minor percentage of af is limited by the inability of the crystal lattice characteristic of the former to accommodate the bulky side group of the latter .
limitations on the lengths of these sequences diminish the stability of the comparatively short crystallites which can be formed , and this is reflected in a broadening of the melting range .
the complex morphology of polycrystalline homopolymers is necessarily dependent on the same factor .
contraction of muscle
experiments carried out over long periods of time in order to allow establishment of a steady state have shown that the onset of contraction and its completion are confined to an interval of several degrees centigrade and to a concentration range of only several per cent .
while atp appears to be necessary for the occurrence of contraction , its presence and enzymatic hydrolysis of it by the muscle protein myosin are not the only criteria for contraction .
-- one of the principal aims of anionic polymerization techniques is the synthesis of polymers of extremely narrow molecular weight distribution .
the preparation of such products is not new , but the systems heretofore employed in polymerizations have commanded considerable experimental skill and starting materials of a high purity .
upon completion of the purging step , additional initiator appropriate for the molecular weight of the sample desired is added , and the system is then warmed to the polymerization temperature , at which the reaction is allowed to go to completion .
contrary to observations with ethers , no apparent change of the reactivity of the chain ends takes place over considerable periods of time in benzene as solvent .
in this publication measurements of interfacial angles of crystals are used to classify and identify chemical substances .
the compilation work was undertaken by a number of interested crystallographers in the department of mineralogy of the university museum at oxford .
numerous cooperating individuals in great britain , holland , the united states , and belgium have contributed editorially or by making calculations .
financial and material help have come from academic , governmental , and industrial organizations in england and holland .
a third volume remains to be published .
volume 1 , deals with 2991 compounds belonging to the tetragonal , hexagonal and trigonal , and orthorhombic systems ; ;
volume 3 , , in preparation , will treat the anorthic compounds described in groth's chemische krystallographie .
the barker system is based on the use of the smallest number of interfacial angles necessary for indexing purposes .
sources of data :
most of the data used are from groth's chemische krystallographie .
every calculation has been made independently by two workers and checked by one of the editors .
accepted crystallographic symbolism has been used ; ;
currency :
there is no mechanism for keeping the volumes up to date .
the publication form is that of clothbound books .
part 1 in both volumes is labeled `` introduction and tables '' .
part 2 of volume 1 , and parts 2 and 3 of volume 2 , contain the crystal descriptions .
an alphabetical list of chemical and mineralogical names with reference numbers enables one to find a particular crystal description .
publication and distribution :
volume 1 , containing parts 1 and 2 was published in 1951 ; ;
the two volumes are available from the publisher for $16.80 and $28.00 , respectively .
crystal data
the present edition of crystal data was written by j.d.h. donnay , the johns hopkins university , baltimore , md. ( part 2 ) ) and werner nowacki , university of berne , switzerland ( part 1 ) ) with the collaboration of gabrielle donnay , u. s. geological survey , washington , d. c. .
support came from academic and industrial groups in these two countries .
preparation of a second edition is in progress under the sponsorship of the crystal data committee of the american crystallographic association .
financial grants have been received from the national science foundation and the ( british ) institute of physics for the compilation work and the publication costs .
substances :
( metal data will not be included in the second edition , since these have been collected independently by w. b. pearson , national research council , ottawa , and published as a handbook of lattice spacings and structures of metals and alloys by pergamon press .
crystallographic data resulting mainly from x-ray and electron diffraction measurements are presented .
for some substances , auxiliary properties such as the melting point are given .
part 1 , of the present edition covers the literature to mid-1948 ; ;
much of the material comes directly from secondary sources such as strukturbericht .
the vast number of compounds to be covered , the limited resources to do the job , and the immediate need for this type of compilation precluded a thorough evaluation of all available data in the present edition .
use of nomenclature , symbols , units , physical constants :
the second edition should have greater uniformity .
a second edition is in preparation , and there are long range plans for a third .
data in the present edition are presented in tables and lists .
the compounds are divided according to composition into seven categories .
these are arranged according to crystal system .
references for part 1 , are given at the end and for part 2 , in the tables .
the present edition of crystal data ( af ) , published in 1954 as memoir 60 of the geological society of america , is now out of print .
2-3 .
organization :
the first section of this publication appeared in 1948 and the last supplement in 1960 .
substances :
properties :
sources of data :
criticality :
presumably the tabulated data are best available values .
use of nomenclature , symbols , units , physical constants :
currency :
coverage of the literature extends through 1954 and includes some 1955 references .
format :
the book is divided into chapters and in each chapter the material is grouped into text , tables , illustrations , and bibliography .
numbers sometimes followed by letters are used so that insertions can be made .
within each chapter an effort has been made to group together those crystals with similar structures .
publication and distribution :
the work consists of four sections and 5 supplements .
2-4 .
organization :
in 1915 edward s. dana , editor of the sixth edition , asked w. e. ford of yale university to prepare a seventh edition of his father's work .
in that year a grant was obtained from the penrose fund of the geological society of america to finance additional full-time workers .
volume 1 , was completed in 1941 and published in 1944 .
work on volume 2 , was begun in 1941 , interrupted by the war in 1942 , and resumed in 1945 .
a supplementary grant from the geological society of america helped finance its publication .
w. e. ford , for example , continued to supply data on the occurrence of minerals until his death in 1939 .
the project is currently supported by harvard university .
minerals .
crystallographic , physical , optical , and chemical properties .
the physical property values include hardness , melting point , and specific gravity .
almost entirely original articles in journals ; ;
criticality :
) an authentic diffraction pattern is always obtained and optical properties are frequently checked .
recommendations of international authorities , such as the international union of crystallography , are followed .
currency :
format :
volume 1 , of the seventh edition contains an introduction and data for eight classes of minerals ; ;
references are given at the end of each mineral description and a general index is given at the end of each volume .
publication and distribution :
( the association of wiley & sons with the dana mineralogies dates back to 1844 when they published the second edition of the system .
2-5 .
organization :
ray pepinsky is the director .
the resident staff is large and consists of professional assistants , graduate students , abstractors , librarian , technical editor , machine operators , secretarial help , and others .
the air force office of scientific research has provided financial assistance in the early stages of the institute's program .
all crystalline substances and other solid-state materials .
the aim is to collect a very broad range of physical , chemical , morphological , and structural data for crystals on an encyclopedic scale and to seek all possible useful and revealing correlations of properties with internal structure .
the first stage of operation has centered on the literature imaging of critical or summarizing tabulations such as the barker index .
unpublished data will be available to the groth institute from cooperating groups and individuals .
critical evaluation of all data compiled is not a primary aim of this project .
in addition , the availability of computers will permit recalculation and refinement of much structural information .
for punched-card or tape storage of information all literature values must be conformed to a common language .
because individual classes of foods differ in their requirements for preservation , a number of methods have been developed over the years involving one or a combination of procedures such as dehydration , fermentation , salting , chemical treatment , canning , refrigeration , and freezing .
in earlier years , the preservation of food was essentially related to survival .
with the development of nuclear technology , isotopic materials , and machine radiation sources in recent years , the possibilities of applying ionizing radiation to the preservation of foods attracted the attention of investigators in the united states and throughout the world .
interest remained , however , in the possibility that it would serve as a useful supplementary method for counteracting spoilage losses and for preserving some foods at lower over-all costs than freezing , or without employing heat or chemicals with their attendant taste alterations .
the chief factors responsible for the spoilage of fresh foodstuffs are ( 1 ) microorganisms such as bacteria , molds , and yeasts , ( 2 ) enzymes , ( 3 ) insects , ( 4 ) sprouting , and ( 5 ) chemical reactions .
of special concern is the growth of bacteria such as clostridium botulinum which generate poisonous products .
spoilage by chemical action results from the reaction of one group of components in the food with others or with its environment , as in corrosion of the walls of metal containers or the reaction of fats with oxygen in the air to produce rancidity .
insect infestation is a problem of importance chiefly in stored grain .
to permit the storage of food for long periods of time , a method of preservation must accomplish the destruction of microorganisms and inhibition of enzymatic action .
food treated in this manner and protected from recontamination by aseptic methods of packaging and containment presumably could be stored for long periods without refrigeration .
less severe thermal treatment as by blanching or scalding serves to inactivate enzymes .
ionizing radiation can cause the destruction of microorganisms and insects involved in food spoilage or , at lower doses , can inhibit their action .
deactivation of enzymes is also possible , although some types require extremely heavy doses of 10 mrad or more .
radiation does not retard the chemical spoilage of food .
the radiation doses required for the preservation of foods are in the following ranges : 1 .
2 .
results vary with types of food , storage conditions , and objectives of treatment -- commonly of the order of 0.2 mrads but up to about 0.8 aj .
for destruction of insects -- about 25,000 aj .
for inhibiting the sprouting of root vegetables -- 4,000 to 10,000 aj .
in this respect , the general palatability and individual acceptance of most radiosterilized foods has , to date , been found to be low in comparison with fresh and commercially processed foods .
moreover , the nutritive value of irradiated foods apparently undergoes little , if any , change , although some of the fat-soluble vitamins are affected by sterilization doses .
for irradiation of food , the results obtained depend upon the dose rather than the specific type of radiation , and x-ray , gamma , and high-energy electron radiation are suitable .
for example , gamma rays give deeper penetration but cannot be focused or collimated , whereas unidirectional electron beams may be split and directed to both the top and bottom of the food package to be irradiated .
of the potentially useful sources of ionizing radiations , gamma sources , cobalt-60 , cesium-137 , fission products , or a reactor irradiation loop system using a material such as an indium salt have received most attention for food-preservation systems .
costs of the effective energy produced by these sources is a major obstacle in the development of food-preservation processes .
conventional energy for processing foods is available in the range of at most a few cents per kwhr for electric power and the equivalent of a few mills per kwhr for process steam .
what are the possibilities of lowered radiation production costs for the future ? ?
no comparable reductions in the cost of nuclide radiation are foreseen .
because agricultural activities are seasonal and the areas of production and harvest of many foods are widely scattered geographically , and because of the high cost of transporting bulk food items any substantial distance to a central processing location , the use of large central processing stations , where low-cost radiation facilities approaching the megawatt range might be utilized , is inherently impracticable .
the objective of complete sterilization of foods is to produce a wholesome and palatable product capable of being stored without refrigeration for extended periods of time .
for them , providing appetizing food under battle or emergency conditions is a paramount consideration .
high nutritional value , variety , palatability , and appetizing appearance are important for reasons of morale .
of primary interest are meats .
thus , food so processed might reach more remote markets and permit the consumer to enjoy more produce at peak freshness and palatability .
the present status of food preservation by ionizing radiation is discussed by food classes in the following paragraphs .
the radiation processing of meat has received extensive investigation .
of particular interest to the military services is the demonstration that roast pork , after radiosterilization , is superior in palatability to available canned pork products .
a prime objective of the army quartermaster corps program is to find the reasons for beef's low palatability and means of overcoming it , since it is a major and desirable dietary item .
off-flavor is a less severe problem with the radiopasteurization of meats , but problems of commercial acceptability remain .
however , the problem of consumer acceptability remains .
cooked beef irradiated in the absence of oxygen assumes an unnatural pink color .
ground meats such as fresh pork sausage and hamburger have a relatively short shelf life under refrigeration , and radiopasteurization might be thought to offer distinctly improved keeping qualities .
ground meats are usually prepared from scrap meats at the local level , whereas irradiation at economic volumes of production would require central processing and distribution facilities .
specialty cooked items containing meat portions , as in `` frozen dinners '' might offer a potential use for radiopasteurization .
a refrigerated item could also be heated and served in less time than is required for frozen foods of the same type .
costs of canning meat are in the range of 0.8 to 5 cents per pound ; ;
the table on page 10 shows costs of canning and freezing meat , and estimated costs for irradiation under certain assumed conditions .
radiosterilization ( at 3 mrad ) is more expensive than canning , particularly for the cesium-137 source .
radiopasteurization by either the electron accelerator or cesium-137 source is in the range of freezing costs .
irradiation using the nuclide source is more expensive than use of an electron accelerator .
results of irradiation tests with poultry have been quite successful .
radiopasteurization has also been successful , and the shelf life of chicken can be extended to a month or more under refrigerated storage as compared with about 10 days for the untreated product .
acceptance of radiopasteurization is likely to be delayed , however , for two reasons : ( 1 ) the storage life of fresh chicken under refrigeration is becoming a minimal problem because of constantly improved sanitation and distributing practices , and ( 2 ) treatment by antibiotics , a measure already approved by the federal food and drug administration , serves to extend the storage life of chicken at a low cost of about 0.5 cents per pound .
fresh seafood products are extremely perishable .
furthermore , it has made an exact assessment of the removal mechanisms possible .
the force required to accomplish removal is plotted , by means of an electronic recorder , against distance of removal .
this , too , is recorded against distance by a repeat run over the same track previously cut .
the measurement of topcoats on primers can also readily be carried out .
the instrumental method , however , is about 100 times more sensitive and yields numerical results which can be accurately repeated at will over a period of time .
at low thicknesses a cutting ( or shearing ) phenomenon is often encountered .
if the coating becomes still thicker , a peeling type failure finally can occur .
it can be seen from fig. 2 that the cutting removal of a coating from its substrate involves pure cohesive failure of the coating .
the pictures of figs. 3 and 4 show the cracking and peeling types of removal where the coating is detached by failure in a region at , or close to , the interface between coating and substrate .
here , h is the coatings removal force measured parallel to the surface of the substrate and t is the film thickness .
also , it can be readily seen that the cutting and peeling types of failure show a steady state response , while the cracking mechanism is of a dynamic nature .
presumably the interfacial bond strength and gross cohesive properties are identical in each case .
why should the `` practical adhesion '' of a coating as assessed by a knife method change , initially increasing rather rapidly and then decreasing stepwise to very low values as the knife is forced through a coating of increasing thickness ? ?
the cutting ( or shearing ) removal process has been previously described .
the details of the removal process are shown schematically in fig. 6 .
the action and reaction forces are r and af , respectively , and are equal and opposite in direction .
af is the force required to cut a coating of thickness t from the substrate .
af and af are the thrust forces acting against coating and knife , respectively ; ;
af is the friction force between chip and knife surfaces , and p is the normal force acting on the face of the knife .
**yf is the angle the shear plane makes with the substrate ; ;
and **yb is the angle the resultants make with the plane of the substrate .
consequently , both the rake angle of the knife as well as the friction occurring between the back of the removed coating and the front of the knife will determine in large part the detailed mechanism of the cutting removal process .
in actual practice , the values most readily amenable to measurement are the cutting force af and the shear angle aj .
**yc is defined by the geometry of the knife ; ;
af is instrumentally determined .
if the cutting force , af , is plotted against film thickness , a straight line should result passing through the origin and having slope af .
blunt knife
this signifies that **yc , the rake angle , is no longer a constant to zero film thickness .
the force vector concept of fig. 6 can readily be applied to this condition also .
this reduces to the relationship : af , where af is the intercept at zero thickness of the extrapolation of the slope indicated in eqn. ( 1 ) , af is the thickness of the coating equivalent to the rounding off of the knife tip , af is a straight line first approximation of this roundness , and the other symbols are equivalent to those of eqn. ( 1 ) .
the blunter the knife , the higher is the value of af .
softer knives would blunt very rapidly , making the value of af inexact .
knife friction
this is not a constant value like af , but varies with the thickness of the coating and the direction and magnitude of the resultants r and af of fig. 6 .
the resultant friction force , af is thus directly proportional to af and consequently also to film thickness .
a straight line relationship is usually observed in a plot of af against load l , having slope k , and af .
.
the first two forces are directly interrelated and depend upon film thickness , whereas af is independent of these two and is a constant for a given knife/coating combination .
chipping mechanism of cohesive failure
this is a chipping , dynamic type failure encountered with very brittle coatings resins or very highly pigmented films .
the basic difference between the continuous cutting mechanism and that of the chipping mechanism is that instead of shear occurring in the coating ahead of the knife continuously without fracture , rupture intermittently occurs along the shear plane .
by studying high speed movies made of this type of failure , the sequence of relationships as schematically illustrated in fig. 9 could be observed .
in the next , the shear plane angle is high , and extends to the inclined work surface .
eventually , rupture occurs along the shear plane ( 9e ) , and the cycle repeats itself .
consequently , if the shear angle **yf is replaced by the rupture angle af , the relationships as described in eqns. ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 4 ) , and ( 6 ) will directly apply .
under equilibrium cutting conditions , the chip exerts a force af against the coating and an equal opposite force af against the knife in the plane of the substrate as shown in fig. 6 .
within only a few years , foamed plastics materials have managed to grow into an integral , and important , phase of the plastics industry -- and the end is still not yet in sight .
yet last year's volume probably topped 100 million lb. and expectations are for a market of 275 million lb. by 1964 .
and there are even newer foamed plastics that are yet to be evaluated .
another reports that a cellular polypropylene , primarily for use in wire coating applications , is being investigated .
it might be well to point out , however , some of the newer developments that have taken place within the past few months which might have a bearing on the future of the various foamed plastics involved .
most manufacturers also seem to be concentrating on formulating fire-resistant or self-extinguishing grades of urethane foam that are aimed specifically at the burgeoning building markets .
in one outstanding example , whirlpool corp. found that by switching to urethane foam insulation , they could increase the storage capacity of gas refrigerators to make them competitive with electric models .
and in meeting the demands for urethane foam as a garment interlining , new adhesives and new methods of laminating foam to a substrate have been developed .
two other end-use areas which contributed to expandable styrene's growth during the year were packaging ( molded inserts replacing complicated cardboard units ) and foamed-core building panels .
sandwich panels for building utility shelters that consist of kraft paper skins and rigid styrene foam cores also aroused interest in the construction field .
better `` hand '' , a more luxurious feel , and better insulating properties were claimed to be the result .
readers interested in additional information on foams are referred to the foamed plastics chart appearing in the technical data section and to the list of references which appears below .
since the mid 1950s , when urethane foam first made its appearance in the american market , growth has been little short of fantastic .
by 1965 , production may range from 200 to 350 million lb. for flexible and from 115 to 150 million lb. for rigid .
furniture upholstery , as just one example , can easily take millions of pounds ; ;
and use of the foam for garment interlining is only now getting off the ground , with volume potential in the offing .
urethane foams are , basically , reaction products of hydroxyl-rich materials and polyisocyanates ( usually tolylene diisocyanate ) .
the most important factor in determining what properties the end-product will have is quite naturally the type of hydroxyl-rich compound that is used in its production .
these are still in wide use today , particularly in semi-rigid formulations , for such applications as cores for sandwich-type structural panels , foamed-in-place insulation , automotive safety padding , arm rests , etc. .
the polyether glycols are claimed to give flexible urethanes a spring-back action which is much desired in cushioning .
it is possible that the polyether foams may soon be molded on a production basis in low-cost molds with more intricate contours and with superior properties to latex foam .
the polyether group generally consists of foams produced with polypropylene glycol or polypropylene glycol modified with a triol .
in the prepolymer system , the isocyanate and resin are mixed anhydrously and no foaming occurs .
in one-shot , the isocyanate , polyester or polyether resin , catalyst , and other additives are mixed directly and a foam is produced immediately .
properties
this latter figure compares with latex foam rubber at an average of 5.5 lb. / cu. ft. in commercial grades .
graph in fig. 1 , p. 392 , indicates how the ratio of compressive strength to density varies as the latter is increased or decreased .
by varying the formula , this curve may be moved forward or backward along the coordinates to produce any desired compression strength / density ratio .
in flexible urethane foams , we are referring to the range between the highest and lowest temperatures under which the materials' primary performance remains functionally useful .
thermal conductivity is directly traceable to the material's porous , air-cell construction which effectively traps air or a gas in the maze of minute bubbles which form its composition .
the k factor , a term used to denote the rate of heat transmission through a material ( b.t.u./sq. ft. of material/hr./*0f./in. of thickness ) ranges from 0.24 to 0.28 for flexible urethane foams and from 0.12 to 0.16 for rigid urethane foams , depending upon the formulation , density , cell size , and nature of blowing agents used .
flexural strength :
the higher-density urethane semi-rigid foams usually have stronger flex fatigue resistance , i.e. , the 12 lb. / cu. ft. foam has 8 times the flexural strength of the 3 lb. / cu. ft. density .
where flexural strength is an important factor , be sure that your urethane foam processor is aware of it .
this property refers to the greatest longitudinal stress or tension a material can endure without tearing apart .
) exceptional tensile strength is another of urethane foam's strong features .
processing urethanes
the foam can be made into slab stock and cut to shape , it can be molded , it can be poured-in-place , it can be applied by spray guns , etc. .
basically , the foam machines that produce such stock consist of two or more pumping units , a variable mixer , a nozzle carriage assembly , and , in many cases , a conveyor belt to transport and contain the liquid during the reaction process and until it solidifies into foam .
the mixing head moves back and forth slowly across the width of the receptacle .
much has been done in the way of ingenious slitters to fabricate the slab stock into finished products .
the convoluted sheets can be combined to attain certain cushioning effects mechanically rather than chemically .
the low cost and ease of fabrication of the dies for three-dimensional foam cutting plus the wide variety of shapes , dimensions , and contours that can be tailor-made to customer requirements has made the technique useful for producing case liners , materials handling containers , packaging and cushioning devices , and such novelties as soap dishes , toys , head rests , arch supports , and gas pedal covers .
although slab stock appeared first , it soon became apparent that for the production of cushions with irregular shapes , crowned contours , or rounded edges , the cutting of slab stock is a wasteful and uneconomical process .
the closed molding of flexible urethane foams has been a problem ever since the introduction of the material ( molding in open molds was more feasible ) .
closed molding generally resulted in parts weighing more ( because of higher density ) than parts fabricated from free-blown foams .
in addition , there were difficulties with the flow and spreading of the foam mixture over the mold surface , trouble with lack of gel strength in the rising foam , and problems of splits .
while there are still many bugs to be ironed out , the technique is fast developing .
simple systems are available that make it possible for urethane foam components to be poured , pumped , etc. , into a void where they foam up to fill the void .
temperature of the wash and rinse waters is maintained at 85 - 90-degrees-f ( 29 - 32-degrees-c ) .
sixty lbs. loading is possible but 40 lbs. is adequate .
the 160-ml. bath containing the calculated amount of detergent is applied slowly and directly to the running specimen .
at the conclusion of the washing , 8 liters of water at 90-degrees-f ( 32*0c. ) are automatically metered from the rinse reservoir to the washing tubs , 4 liters to each tub .
during the rinsing operation the volume in the tubs gradually increases until overflow from the main drain begins .
when all of the rinse water has passed from the reservoir to the tubs the main drains are lowered to permit complete draining of the tubs .
by this procedure rinsing progresses in two stages , first by dilution until the time when the drains are separated and thereafter by displacement of the soil-bearing liquor by clean rinse water , since soiled liquor squeezed from the specimens at the nip passes directly to waste from the suds box drains .
suggested evaluation and classification
a reflectance-measuring instrument may be desirable to measure cleaning , whereas soxhlet extraction is necessary to measure grease removal .
this test method is intended for determining the dimensional changes of woven or knitted fabrics , made of fibers other than wool , to be expected when the cloth is subjected to laundering procedures commonly used in the commercial laundry and the home .
five drying test procedures are established to cover the range of drying techniques used in the home and commercial laundry .
these tests are not accelerated and must be repeated to evaluate dimensional changes after repeated launderings .
the person using these tests must determine which combination of procedures is practical for any specific item in order to evaluate the dimensional changes of textile fabrics or garments after laundering procedures commonly used in the home or commercial laundry .
for example test 3 , e 1 refers to a specimen which has been washed by procedure `` 3 ( '' ( at 160-degrees-f ) for a total of 60 minutes in the machine , has been dried in a tumble dryer by procedure `` e '' and has been subjected to restorative forces on the tension presser by procedure `` 1 '' .
a specimen or garment is washed in a cylindrical reversing wash wheel , dried and subjected to restorative forces where necessary .
drying procedures and application of restorative force procedures are varied to conform with end-use handling during home or commercial laundering .
apparatus and materials
the wheel ( cage ) is 20 to 24 inches inside diameter and 20 to 24 inches inside length .
one fin is located every 120-degrees around the inside diameter of the wheel .
the water inlets are large enough to permit filling the wheel to an eight-inch level in less than two minutes , and the outlet is large enough to permit discharge of this same amount of water in less than two minutes .
the machine shall contain an opening for the insertion of a thermometer or other equivalent equipment for determining the temperature of the water during the washing and rinsing procedures .
a domestic automatic washer that will give equivalent results may be used .
pressing equipment -- flat-bed press measuring 24 inches by 50 inches or larger .
the flat-bed press is maintained at a temperature not less than 275-degrees-f ( 135*0c. ) .
the dryer is provided with a means of maintaining a drying temperature of 120-degrees - 160-degrees-f ( 49*0 - 71*&0c. ) , measured in the exhaust vent as close as possible to the drying chamber .
drying room -- facilities for drip- or line-drying .
pen and ink , indelible -- or other suitable marking device .
soap , neutral chip -- fed. spec. 566 or aj .
detergent , synthetic -- alkylarysulfonate type .
tension presser -- consisting of a padded ironing board from which extend clamping members on all four sides .
the movable clamps travel on carriages which ride the rails and are drawn by dead-weight loading .
a perforated aluminum plate , used to provide the drying surface , is heated by means of a flatiron .
knit shrinkage gauge -- consisting of a set of 20 mounting pins set in guides in radial slots ( fig. 1 ) .
the springs have an extension of 1 inch at af tension .
the minimum diameter of the pin frame in the collapsed state is 11 inches and the maximum diameter in the freely extended state ( unloaded ) is 14 inches .
test specimens
three specimens for each sample to be tested are required in order to arrive at a satisfactory average of performance .
specimens are allowed to reach moisture equilibrium with a standard atmosphere of af and af and then laid out without tension on a flat , polished surface , care being taken that the fabric is free from wrinkles or creases .
this also holds true if restorative forces are applied .
generally , it is necessary to mark distances on a specimen ( or garment ) in both lengthwise and widthwise directions and to measure before and after laundering .
the marked distances are parallel to the respective yarns .
distances of less than 10 inches are not recommended .
the specimen of fabric is a rectangle at least 22 by 22 inches , except for cloth narrower than 22 inches , in which case the specimen is the entire width of the fabric .
the distances are at least two inches from any edge of the specimen .
each specimen is at least 25 inches by 25 inches .
mark the specimen at the outer edges of the template with pen and indelible ink ; ;
measure and record .
each specimen is approximately 16 inches square .
garments .
procedure
the washing procedures are summarized in table 2 .
start the wash wheel and note the time .
this level will be increased by condensed steam .
add sufficient soap ( and softener if required to counteract hard water ) to furnish a good running suds , or if desired use a synthetic detergent .
-- stop the wash wheel at the end of the time shown in column a of table 2 , and drain .
inject steam , if necessary , to reach the temperature shown in column d of table 2 .
this procedure is repeated for the second rinse , using the temperatures and time shown in columns f and e of table 2 .
-- run the machine continuously until completion of the test .
refill the machine to a level of af inches with water at 100 - 109-degrees-f ( 38 - 43*0c. ) .
drain off the water at such a time that the wheel has become substantially empty of water at the end of the sum of the times shown in columns a and c , measured from the time the wash wheel was started .
when this water level has been reached inject steam until the temperature is that shown in column aj .
high-gain , photoelectronic image intensification is applied under conditions of low incident light levels whenever the integration time required by a sensor or recording instrument exceeds the limits of practicability .
high-gain photoelectronic image intensification may be achieved by several methods ; ;
cascading single stages by coupling lens systems , ( b )
image intensifier based upon the `` multipactor '' principle , ( d )
cascading of single stages , enclosed in one common envelope .
channel-type image intensifiers are capable of achieving high-gain values ; ;
image intensifiers based upon the multipactor principle appear to hold promise as far as obtainable resolution is concerned .
tsem tubes have been constructed showing high gain and resolution .
resolution limitations with electrostatic focus might be anticipated due to chromatic aberrations .
cascaded single stages enclosed by a common envelope have been constructed with high gain and high resolution .
the electron optical system may be either a magnetic or electrostatic one .
an electrostatic system suffers generally from image plane curvature leading to defocusing in the peripheral image region if a flat viewing screen ( or interstage coupler ) is utilized , while a magnetic system requires accurate adjustment of the solenoid , which is heavy and bulky .
it should be noted , however , that the paraxial resolution is quite similar for both electron optical systems .
therefore , we shall consider in this paper the theoretical gain and resolution capabilities of such tubes .
it will be shown theoretically that the high image intensification obtainable with such a tube and contact photography permits the utilization of extremely low incident light levels .
after these theoretical considerations , constructional details of a fiber-coupled , double-stage x-ray image intensifier will be discussed .
the conclusion shall be reached that fiber-coupled , double-stage tubes represent a sensible and practical approach to high-gain image intensification .
the tube design which forms the basis of the theoretical discussion shall be described now .
the inner ( anode ) sphere is pierced , elongated into a cup , and terminated by the phosphor screen .
the cylindrical focusing electrode permits adjustment of the positive lens part by varying the focusing potential .
both the photocathode and the image plane of such an electrode configuration are curved concave as seen from the anode aperture .
for the same reason , the output fiber plate is planoconcave , its exposed flat side permitting contact photography if a permanent record is desired .
the second photocathode and both phosphor surfaces are deposited on the fiber plate substrates .
both stages are assumed to have unity magnification .
flux gain of a single stage
in general , p is a function of v and the current density , but it shall here be assumed as a constant .
af is standard visibility function .
if the input light distribution falls beyond the visible range , af as expected , since af .
efficiency of fiber couplers
numerical aperture ( n.a. ) ; ;
end ( fresnel reflection ) losses ( r ) ; ;
internal losses ( i.l. ) ; ;
packing efficiency ( f.r. ) .
the angle af is measured in the medium of index af .
the numerical aperture should be in general close to unity .
a sufficiently good approximation for determining the end reflection losses r can be obtained from the angle independent fresnel formula : af .
this value may be reduced to 4.6 percent by means of a ( very thin ) glass layer of index 1.5 .
as the index of refraction of photosensitive surfaces of the sbcs-type lies around 2 , the fresnel losses at the fiber-photocathode interface are about 0.5 percent and the af factor for the interstage coupler is 0.95 .
the internal losses are due to absorption and the small but finite losses suffered in the numerous internal reflections due to deviations from the prescribed , cylindrical fiber cross-section and minute imperfections of the core-jacket interface .
explicit expressions ( integral averages ) are given in the literature .
this relatively high value is probably due to the small fiber diameters increasing the number of internal reflections .
the packing efficiency , f.r. , of fiber plates did not receive much attention in the literature , probably as it is high for the larger fibers generally used , until rather recently .
for the small diameter fibers now technically feasible and required for about 100 af resolution , af .
thus , the efficiency **yt couplers is given by -- af or approximately 50 percent each .
the efficiency af of an af lens at the magnification af is : af .
thus , the combined efficiency of the elements replaced by the two fiber plates ( with a combined efficiency of 0.25 ) is 0.043 or about six times less than that of the two fiber plates .
including the brightness gain af due to the af area demagnification , the overall gain of a fiber coupled double stage image intensifier is : af .
the same consideration should govern the choice of the second-stage phosphor screen for matching with the spectral sensitivity of the ultimate sensor ( e.g. , photographic emulsion ) .
the input light distributions considered are p-11 and p-20 phosphor emission and the so-called `` night light '' ( n.l. ) as given by h.w. babcock and j. j. johnson .
theoretical discussion of paraxial device resolution
the resolution limitations for a single stage are given by the inherent resolution of the electron optical system as well as the resolution capabilities of the cathodoluminescent viewing screen .
it has been stated previously that a minifying electrostatic system yields a lower resolution than a magnifying system or a system with unity magnification .
in general , a high anode voltage reduces chromatic aberrations and thus increases the obtainable resolution .
( the p-20 input is of interest because it corresponds roughly to the light emission of conventional x-ray fluorescent screens ) .
.
the possibility of a space charge blowup of the screen crossover of the elementary electron bundles has been pointed out .
space charge influences will also decrease at increased voltages .
a resolution of 70 - 80 line-pairs per millimeter appears to be feasible .
thus , in general , elementary light optical effects , light scatter , and electron scatter determine the obtainable resolution limit .
it has been stated that settled cathodoluminescent phosphor screens may have a limiting resolution of 60 af at high voltage values of approximately 20 aj .
the set of all decisions is called the operating policy or , more simply , the policy .
there are thus three components to an optimal design problem : ( 1 )
( 2 )
( 3 )
for a chemical process the first of these might involve the concentrations of the different chemical species , and the temperature or pressure of the stream .
the way in which the transformation of state depends on the operating variables for the main types of reactors is discussed in the next chapter .
it is the subject of chapter 4 .
he recognized that whatever transformation may be effected in the first stage of an r-stage process , the remaining stages must use an optimal af-stage policy with respect to the state resulting from the first stage , if there is to be any chance of optimizing the complete process .
proceeding in this way , from one to two and from two to three stages , we may gradually build up the policy for any number .
to see how important this economy is , let us suppose that there are m operating variables at each stage and that the state is specified by n variables ; ;
to proceed from one stage to the next a sufficient number of feed states must be investigated to allow for interpolation ; ;
if , however , we are seeking the optimal r-stage policy for a given feed state , only one search for a maximum is required at the final step .
if all the operating variables were varied simultaneously , af operations would be required to do the same job , and as r increases this increases very much more rapidly than the number of operations required by the dynamic program .
in contrast , the dynamic program produces this policy and a whole family of policies for any smaller number of stages .
but af is vastly larger than r .
suppose that af , and that the average operation requires only af sec. .
the principle of optimality thus brings a vital organization into the search for the optimal policy of a multistage decision process .
`` an optimal policy has the property that whatever the initial state and initial decision are , the remaining decisions must constitute an optimal policy with respect to the state resulting from the first decision '' .
it appears in a form that is admirably suited to the powers of the digital computer .
2.2 the discrete deterministic process
these will be numbered in the direction opposite to the flow of the process stream , so that stage r is the t stage from the end .
thus af denotes the state of the feed to the r-stage process , and af the state of the product from the last stage .
we write this af .
in practical situations there will be restrictions on the admissible operating conditions , and we regard the vectors as belonging to a fixed and bounded set s .
when the policy has been chosen , the state of the product can be obtained from the state of the feed by repeated application of the transformation ( 1 ) ; ;
the objective function , which is to be maximized , is some function , usually piecewise continuous , of the product state .
an optimal policy is an admissible policy af which maximizes the objective function p .
let af where the maximization is over all admissible policies af .
for any choice of admissible policy af in the first stage , the state of the stream leaving this stage is given by af .
this will result in a value af of the objective function , and when af is chosen correctly this will give af , the maximum of the objective function .
the sequence of equations ( 6 ) can be solved for af when af is known , and clearly af , the maximization being over all admissible af .
in finding the optimal r-stage policy from that of af stages , only the function af is needed .
we also see how the results may be presented , although if n , the number of state variables , is large any tabulation will become cumbersome .
to extract the optimal r-stage policy with respect to the feed state af , we enter section r of this table at the state af and find immediately from the last column the maximum value of the objective function .
since by the principle of optimality the remaining stages use an optimal af-stage policy with respect to af , we may enter section af of the table at this state af and read off the optimal policy for stage af and the resulting state af .
it may be that the objective function depends not only on af but also on af , as when the cost of the operating policy is considered .
a form of objective function that we shall often have occasion to consider is af .
hence p is the increase in value of the stream minus the cost of operation , that is , the net profit .
this sequence of equations may be started with the remark that with no process af there is no profit , i.e. , af .
the process in which the outcome of any one stage is known only statistically is also of interest , although for chemical reactor design it is not as important as the deterministic process .
this is specified by a distribution function af such that the probability that af lies in some region d of the stage space is af .
we can , however , maximize its expected value .
we thus have an optimal policy which maximizes the expected value of the objective function for a given af .
then af , the maximization being over all admissible af and the integration over the whole of stage space .
the third column gives the optimal policy , but we must wait to see the outcome of stage r and enter the preceding section of the table at this state .
2.4 the continuous deterministic process
we replace r , the number of the stage from the end of the process , by t , a continuous variable which measures the `` distance '' of the point considered from the end of the process .
it may in fact be the time that will elapse before the end of the process .
p denotes the state at any point t and q the vector of operating variables there .
the restrained gyro-stabilized platform with reasonable response characteristics operates with an approximate equation of motion , neglecting transient effects , as follows : af where u is a torque applied about the output axis of the controlling gyro .
this is normally termed the gyro input axis , 90-degrees away from the gyro output or **yj axis .
thus if the gyro and platform-controller combination maintains the platform with zero angular deviation about the **yf axis , the system can be rotated with an angular velocity af if a torque is supplied to the gyro output axis aj .
in the system shown in fig. 7-1 , the accelerometer output is amplified and the resulting voltage is applied to the gyro output-axis torquer .
if the polarities are correct , the platform rotates in such a direction as to reduce the accelerometer output to zero .
finally , when the accelerometer output is zero , the entire system remains stationary , and the platform is , by definition , leveled .
the platform is initially off level by the angle aj .
af is the scale factor of the accelerometer ( af ) .
finally , the gyro-stabilized platform characteristic is represented by af .
with these factors included , an upper limit is placed on the allowable loop gain by stability considerations .
when the frequency response characteristics of practical components are considered , their effect on stability does not present the most serious limit on the system loop gain .
in addition , the cutoff frequency for input accelerations is approximately proportional to the servo loop gain ; ;
this problem usually determines the lower limit of loop gain rather than response time .
the equation relating input acceleration to output platform angle is af .
when the system is arranged for automatic leveling , the platform angles respond to any horizontal components of acceleration acting on the accelerometers .
one of the greatest problems associated with automatic leveling is establishing a true level in the presence of high-level acceleration noise .
this technique causes the system to respond only to low frequency acceleration components such as the platform tilt .
one of the most desirable solutions is achieved by the use of a non-linear amplifier for af .
below this level , the amplifier gain af is proportional and is of small value , in order to provide adequate noise filtering .
when the system is on automatic leveling , the gyro drift is canceled by the output of the leveling system ( amplifier af ) .
the amount of platform dip required depends upon the scale factors of the system .
practical leveling considerations .
the system requires some switching of flight equipment circuits .
this leveling system will hold the platform on-level , automatically , as long as the system is actuated .
the leveling process can be accomplished manually , and the results are as satisfactory as those obtained with automatic equipment .
the turning is accomplished by applying voltage to the gyro torquers described above .
manual leveling requires an appropriate display of the accelerometer outputs .
with integration , the effect of a small acceleration ( or small platform tilt angle ) can be seen after a time .
also , it requires more time as compared to the automatic approach .
the operator must continually supply the correct amount of turning current to the gyro torquers so that the effect of gyro drift is canceled .
7-4 .
platform heading consists of orienting the sensitive axis of the accelerometers parallel to the desired coordinate system of the navigator .
for purely inertial navigators , two techniques are available to accomplish the platform heading : use of external or surveying equipment to establish proper heading ; ;
the choice of the heading technique is dependent upon the accuracy requirements , field conditions , and the time available to accomplish the heading .
external determination of heading -- surveying technique .
the platform accelerometers must be slightly modified for this procedure .
a mirror is mounted on each accelerometer so that the plane of the mirror is perpendicular to the sensitive axis of the unit .
a precision transit is set up so that it is aligned with respect to true north .
with the transit set up , a mirror on one of the accelerometers is sighted and the platform is turned until it is aligned .
when the platform is aligned , the reflected image of the crossed hairs can be seen exactly superimposed upon the original crossed hairs .
the platform is turned as required by supplying currents to the appropriate gyro torquers .
however , this difficulty is not too serious if it is realized that a surveying team can establish a true north base line with a few days' work .
with this situation , it is difficult to sight in on the platform with surveying equipment .
obviously , the heading accuracy is lessened by such techniques since errors are introduced because of motion of the stand .
the transit can be replaced by an autocollimator .
the electrical signal from the autocollimator is amplified and supplied to the z-gyro torquer .
information is also available from this autocollimator system to set the drift bias for the z-axis gyro .
if the drift error is systematic , it can be canceled with a bias circuit which can be arranged and adjusted to supply the required compensating current .
it is possible to locate an angular electrical pickoff , which will indicate the angular deviation between the true heading direction and the platform .
7-6 .
gyrocompass alignment is an automatic heading system which depends upon the characteristic of one gyro to establish true heading .
the accelerometers are mounted rigidly on the platform .
the input axis of the appropriate gyros are parallel to the sensitive direction of the accelerometers .
the platform is leveled and properly headed , so that the x-gyro input axis is parallel to the east-west direction and the y-gyro input axis is parallel to the north-south direction .
if the platform is not properly headed , the x-gyro input axis will see a component of the earth's rotation .
in fig. 7-4 , the input axis of the three-axis platform is shown at some point on the earth .
the earth is spinning at an angular velocity **zq equal to one revolution per 24 hr. .
since the earth is rotating and the unleveled gyro-stabilized platform is fixed with respect to a reference in space , an observer on the earth will see the platform rotating ( with respect to the earth ) .
scotty did not go back to school .
his teacher and his school principal were conferred with and everyone agreed that , if he kept up with a certain amount of work at home , there was little danger of his losing a term .
he was discharged from the hospital after a two-day checkup and he and his parents had what mr. mckinley described as a `` celebration lunch '' at the cafeteria on the campus .
scotty's father sat sprawled in his chair , angular , alert as a cricket , looking about at the huge stainless-steel appointments of the room with an expression of proprietorship .
rachel was polite , scotty indifferent .
his father tried to make the food a topic .
i recommend it '' .
scotty murmured , `` no , thanks '' , so softly his father had to bend his gaunt height across the table and turn a round brown ear to him .
he said more loudly , `` i'm full , old pop '' .
`` he's all right , craig '' , rachel said .
since his seizure , scotty had had little appetite ; ;
his face was fuller ; ;
he breathed now with his mouth open , showing a whitely curving section of lower teeth ; ;
even his neck seemed thicker and , therefore , shorter .
they lay on his lap , palms up , stiffly motionless , the tapered fingers a little thick at the joints .
he looked lazy , spoiled , a little querulous .
she greeted her husband's colleagues with smiling politeness , offering nothing .
it was a strained , silent lunch .
the doctors had suggested scotty remain most of every afternoon in bed until he was stronger .
they did not speak much .
it was a negro section of peeling row houses , store-front churches and ragged children .
he said , `` nothing '' .
scotty looked at the children , his mouth slightly opened , his eyes dull .
thirty-four
he rose late and went down in his bathrobe and slippers to have breakfast either alone or with rachel .
she would hover over him and , looking like her brother , anxiously watch the progress of scotty's fork or spoon .
try to get that down '' .
it'll take time '' .
both watched scotty constantly , rachel without seeming to , virginia openly , her eyes filled with concern .
he did not resent their supervision or virginia's sometimes tiring sympathy .
his energy was gone .
his hands lay loosely , yet stiffly -- they were like wax hands : almost lifelike , not quite -- folded in his lap ; ;
when he was asked a question or addressed in such a way that some response was inescapable , he would answer ; ;
he had not mentioned kate .
at these times he felt a kind of pain in his upper chest , but it was an objective pain , in no way different from others in intensity and not different in kind ; ;
it was merely another part of his weakness .
he did not care .
she said , `` i notice the girl from across the street hasn't bothered to phone or visit '' .
kate's all right '' .
once , sitting at the front window in his parents' room , he saw kate come out of her house .
they were far off and looked tiny .
they turned at the bottom of kate's steps and moved off in the direction of the park .
then they disappeared and scotty got up and went into his own room and got into bed .
the doctor , since scotty was no longer allowed to make his regular trips into town to see him , came often and informally to the house .
scotty did not mind the doctor's unsmiling teasing as he used to .
`` i imagine you're always battling in school '' .
`` pardon '' ? ?
his delicate hand , as veined as a moth's wing , rested absently on scotty's chest .
`` oh .
he turned unsmilingly to rachel .
he could now but the weakness is very definite ; ;
he'll be stronger soon '' .
he said fussily , `` just keep the cap on those strong emotions '' .
`` i'll drop by again in a few days '' .
she smoothed the covers on scotty's bed and picked things up from the floor .
scotty watched with disinterest .
he had no desire to .
he had noticed how formal and irritably exact rachel had grown .
he felt her irritability did not concern him , yet he knew he would not care even if it did .
`` we've had any number of calls about you .
miss estherson called twice .
she says the children miss you .
scotty shrugged slightly .
she was frowning .
she seemed to speak to herself .
she turned to him again .
she was very worried '' .
`` she didn't really say '' -- she glanced away at the floor , then swooped gracefully and picked up one of scotty's slippers .
scotty said , `` i don't know '' .
he did not .
`` well , there's time , in any case .
she put the slipper neatly by its mate at the foot of the bed .
this time rachel kissed him lightly on the forehead .
his father was a constant visitor .
it floated up the stairs .
and rachel's or virginia's reply : `` better .
`` is his appetite improved '' ? ?
the exchange was almost invariable , and scotty , in his bed , could hear every word of it .
it required an energy he no longer possessed to be satirical about his father .
after a pause , during which he studied scotty's face as if scotty were not there and could not study him too , mr. mckinley would ask the same questions he had asked downstairs .
`` i'm eating more '' , he would say .
`` perhaps you should get out a little '' .
he was not irritated .
he looked at the lined face with vague interest ; ;
mr. mckinley examined everything with critical care , seeking something material to blame for his son's illness .
and another time , without accusation : `` you never wore that scarf i bought you '' .
`` our objective '' , the colonel had said that day of the briefing , `` is papa-san '' .
gouge , burn , blast , insult it as they would , could anyone really take papa-san ? ?
the raped valley was a pregnant womb awaiting abortion .
at the slope's base coils of concertina stretched out of eye range like a wild tangle of children's hoops , stopped simultaneously , weirdly poised as if awaiting the magic of the child's touch to start them all rolling again .
was it all vain labor ? ?
smiling at his quixotic thoughts , warren turned back from the opening and lit a cigarette before sitting down .
if he were to go with white , he would be out there two days , not just listening in the dark at some point between here and papa-san , but moving ever deeper into enemy land -- behind papa-san -- itself .
he hadn't realized that there would be so much time to think , so many lulls .
now he knew that the moment illuminated by the vision on the train would have to be approached .
there was just too much time .
white's suggestion flattered , but he did not like the identity .
he hadn't even seen him yet
he saw no life , but still stood there for a time peering at the unlovely hills , his gaze continually returning to papa-san .
while most of his beliefs were still unsettled , he knew that he did not believe in killing .
he had come because he could not live out his life feeling that he had been a coward .
the beaming rok was carrying a thirty-caliber machine gun ; ;
warren and white each carried , in addition to their own weapons and ammo , a box of ammo for the rok's machine gun .
prevot had briefed the two new men that afternoon .
`` be sure the man nearest you is awake .
otherwise , we hold a reception .
remember what i said about going out to get anybody left behind ? ?
we bring back all dead and wounded '' .
then began the journey through their own mine fields .
ours were kinder than theirs , some said .
mines .
the crude wooden boxes of the enemy , our nicely turned gray metal disks .
mines .
mines .
booby traps to fill the head with chunks of metal .
it was dark .
because they were new men and to be sure that they didn't get lost , prevot had placed warren and white in the center of the patrol as it filed out .
he could also hear the stream which he had seen from his position .
`` it's safe '' , prevot had said , `` and it provides cover for our noise '' .
on their right rose the embankment covered with brush and trees .
thus , stealthily they advanced upstream ; ;
there was no cover here , only grass sighing against pant-legs .
the gentle whir of each footstep left him more naked than before , until he felt his unprotected flesh tremble , chilled by each new sound .
the dark forms moved like mourners on some nocturnal pilgrimage , their dirge unsung for want of vocal chords .
clumps of brush that they passed were so many enchained demons straining in anger to tear and gnaw on his bones .
off in the distance a searchlight flashed on , its beam slashing the sky .
somewhere over there another patrol had need of light .
from the east to the west coast of the korean peninsula was a strip of land in which fear-filled men were at that same moment furtively crawling through the night , sitting in sweaty anticipation of any movement or sound , or shouting amidst confused rifle flashes and muzzle blasts .
the patrol was stopping .
take that spot over there '' , he whispered , pointing to a small clump of blackness .
warren handed him the metal box and prevot quietly disappeared down the line .
the others likewise had hidden themselves in the grass and the brush .
even at this short distance they were only vague shapes , setting up the machine gun on a small knoll so that it could fire above the heads of the rest of the patrol .
this he placed within quick reach .
although the armored vest fitted the upper part of his body snugly , he felt no security .
in the distance he saw a band of men who seemed to advance and retreat even as he watched .
he was aware of insistent inner beatings , as if prisoners within sought release from his rigid body .
then the figures which held his attention became a group of shattered trees , standing like the grotesques of a medieval damnation scene .
the rough surface of the earth itself seemed to resist every attempt on his part to relax .
he sensed something precious in the perilous moment , something akin to the knowledge gained on his bicycle trip through the french countryside , a knowledge imprisoned in speechlessness .
they were poems in a strange language , of which he could barely touch a meaning -- enough to make his being ache with the desire for the fullness he sensed there .
pierre had no hands ; ;
with leather cups fitted in his handlebars , he steered his bicycle .
they visited the shipyards at brest and pierre had to sign the register , vouching for the integrity of the visiting foreigner .
`` wait ! !
cried the guard who ran from the hut to shout to other men standing about outside .
`` c'est formidable '' , they exclaimed .
c'est merveilleux '' .
`` doesn't it ever bother you '' , warren had asked , `` to have people always asking you about your hands '' ? ?
`` they are also honest seekers after truth .
they refuse to mention or to notice that they are not there .
i'm used to all three , but i think the french have the healthiest attitude '' .
`` you are looking tired and there you can rest .
i think , too '' , he said , his dark eyes mischievous , `` that you will find there some clue to the secret of the cathedrals about which you have spoken '' .
the monk who opened the door immediately calmed his worries about his reception : `` i speak english '' , the old man said , `` but i do not hear it very well '' .
smiling at warren's protestations , the old monk took his grip from him and led him down a corridor to a small parlor .
mickie sat over his second whisky-on-the-rocks in a little bar next to the funeral parlor on pennsylvania avenue .
hanging over the bar was an oil painting of a nude al had accepted from a student at the corcoran gallery who needed to eat and drink and was broke .
this was one place where moonan could go for a drink in a back booth without anyone noticing him , or at least coming up and hanging around and wanting to know all the low-down .
the reporters had not yet discovered that this was his hideaway .
she was wise enough to realize a man could be good company even if he did weigh too much and didn't own the mint .
this meant sorting out press clippings and the like .
mickie had a pleasant glow as he said , `` you see , both of them , i mean the president and jeff lawrence , are romantics .
it's like focusing a camera ; ;
you know what i'm talking about .
`` but when it comes to war , the colonel knows what it is and jeff doesn't .
he had a mean , unbroken sheer bastard in his outfit , and someone invented the name trig for him .
he'd shoot at anything if it was the rear end of a horse or his own sentry .
but not in front of trig .
there'd been a pretty bad incident back at the marine base .
before the fight was over , the harlem boy had a concussion and trig was cut up badly .
the fear of punishment just didn't bother him .
it was left out of him at birth .
he wasn't troubled with the ordinary , rank-and-file fear that overcomes and paralyzes and sends individual soldiers and whole companies under fire running in panic .
do you get the picture of the kind of fellow he was '' ? ?
`` all right .
the colonel ordered that it be wiped out , and i suggested , ' you ask for volunteers , and promise each man on the patrol a quart of whisky , ten dollars and a week-end pass to davao .
the patrol snaked around in back of the cave , approached it from above and dropped in suddenly with wild howls .
there was a lot of shooting .
so we hurried over .
trig and a very black colored boy from detroit had killed or put out of action ten guerrillas by grenades and hand-to-hand fighting .
the colored boy had it , and trig lunged at him with a knife and said , ' give that to me , you black bastard .
`` the negro got a bad slice on his chest from the knife wound '' .
jane asked in her placid , interested way .
`` he recommended both of them for the dsm and the detroit fellow for the purple heart , too , for a combat-inflicted wound .
but not jeff lawrence .
these were heroes nine feet tall to him '' .
he had dinner and sat there over his coffee watching the winding pattern of traffic as it crossed the bridge and spread out like a serpent with two heads .
he thought how this dainty , fragile older woman threading her way through the streets of westminster on a day in june , enjoying the flowers in the shops , the greetings from old friends , but never really drawing a deep , passionate breath , was so like himself .
he had not because he was both poor and ambitious .
they cannot stop to grasp and embrace and sit in the back seat of cars along a dark country lane .
he made the decision with his eyes open , or so he thought .
and so he had , so he had .
from his room he could look out in springtime and see the couples hand in hand walking slowly , deliciously , across the campus , and he could smell the sweet vernal winds .
he was not unmoved .
he must mentally pull the blinds and close the window , so that all that existed was in the books before him .
more of this stamping down of human emotion as a young lawyer in new york .
the only one who would have him was his cripple , the strange unhappy woman who became his wife .
perhaps it was just .
like mrs. dalloway , with her regrets about peter walsh , he had his moments of melancholy over a youth too well spent .
but then his son could afford it .
the vice president had called and asked if he could see the secretary at his home .
the secretary was uneasy about the visit .
he suspected something underhanded and furtive about him .
when you disliked or distrusted a man , you should have a reason .
lawrence stared a minute at the lighted ribbon of traffic , hoping that a clue to his dislike of the vice president would appear .
therefore , he decided he was unfair to the young man and should make an effort to understand and sympathize with his point of view .
he looked very carefully at every piece of furnishing , as though hoping to store this information carefully in his mind .
the pattern of the oriental rug , the delicate cut-glass chandelier .
how did you find out about this '' ? ?
it was not a discourteous question , lawrence decided .
he had to find out .
he merely said , `` any good decorator these days can make you a tasteful home '' .
i can do business with that kind '' .
boxell did not have the chance to grow up graciously .
they had brandy in the library .
what are your weaknesses ? ?
how best to destroy your peace ? ?
old chris is my ideal .
what does a monk know about sex '' ? ?
`` so , we have to protect the old man for his own good .
congress is full of politicians , and if you want to get along with them , you have to be politic .
let me tell you what happened to me today .
i've got a quarter of a million germans in my state , and those krautheads tune in on father werther every night , and if he tells them to go out and piss in the public square , that's what they do .
and another one comes to me and he says , ' look here , there's a mill in my state employs five thousand people making uniforms for the navy .
literally , there was nothing else to do .
annisberg was about seventy-five miles west of birmingham , near the georgia border and on the tallahoosa river , a small and dirty stream .
but it had , as was usual in southern cities of this sort , a black bottom , a low region near the river where the negroes lived -- servants and laborers huddled together in a region with no sewage save the river , where streets and sidewalks were neglected and where there was much poverty and crime .
the rather pleasant white city was on the hill where the chief stores were .
then they went down to black bottom .
it was an old and dirty wooden structure , sadly in need of repair .
it had been there 50 years or more and everybody in town , black and white , knew of it .
for the old preacher who had been there twenty-five years was dead , and the city mourned him .
he was stern and overbearing with his flock , but obsequious and conciliatory with the whites , especially the rich who partly supported the church .
the characteristic thing about this church was its amen corner and the weekly religious orgy .
it began invariably in low tones , almost conversational , and then gradually worked up to high , shrill appeals to god and man .
with shout and slow dance , with tears and song , with scream and contortion , the corner group was beset by hysteria and shivering , wailing , shouting , possession of something that seemed like an alien and outside force .
it sometimes ended in death-like trances with many lying exhausted and panting on chair and floor .
it was often re-enacted in less wild form at the wednesday night prayer meeting .
he had preached a short sermon , trying to talk man-to-man to the audience , to tell them who he was , what he had done in macon and birmingham , and what he proposed to do here .
but then , at mention of that name , the amen corner broke loose .
at the very end , when the audience was silent and breathless , a collection was taken and then slowly everyone filed out .
during the next weeks he looked over the situation .
it was arranged that he would board in the home of one of the old members of the church , a woman named catt who , as wilson afterward found , was briefly referred to as the cat because of her sharp tongue and fierce initiative .
she soared over the new pastor like an avenging angel lest he stray from the path and not know all the truth and gossip of which she was chief repository .
the salary of the pastor had for years been $500 annually and even this was in arrears .
the church itself must be repaired .
it really ought to be rebuilt , and he determined to go up and talk to the city banks about this .
the streets in the colored section were dirty .
the children had nowhere to go and no place to play , not even sidewalks .
the teacher was a pliant fool .
the other exclusively negro .
on the other side of the church was a quiet , well-kept house with shutters and recently painted .
it was called kent house .
one of the leading members of the amen corner was cook ; ;
wilson was told that it was a sort of hotel for white people , which seemed to him rather queer .
but nevertheless it looked respectable .
the rest of black bottom was a rabbit warren of homes in every condition of neglect , disrepair and careful upkeep .
the best could not escape from the worst and the worst nestled cosily beside the better .
some were trash dumps , some had flower gardens .
after looking about a bit , wilson discovered beyond black bottom , across the river and far removed from the white city , a considerable tract of land , and it occurred to him that the church and the better negro homes might gradually be moved to this plot .
the presiding elder looked him over rather carefully .
but there was one thing that he had to stress , and that was that the contribution to the general church expenses , the dollar money , had been seriously falling behind in this church , and that must be looked after immediately .
wilson stressed the fact that clear as this was , they must have a better church , a more business-like conduct of the church organization , and an effort to get this religious center out of its rut of wild worship into a modern church organization .
the presiding elder was sure that that would be impossible .
and wilson tried .
the bank which held the mortgage on the old church declared that the interest was considerably in arrears , and the real estate people said flatly that the land across the river was being held for an eventual development for white working people who were coming in , and that none would be sold to colored folk .
he was sure that he could do better if he went to atlanta to get the deal financed .
the church certainly would not be removed .
it had been here fifty years .
it was hardly possible to get any argument on the subject .
wilson again went downtown to a different banker , an intelligent young white man who seemed rather sympathetic , but he shook his head .
don't you see the amount of money that has been invested by whites around that church ? ?
the colored people are getting employment at kent house and other places , and they are near their places of employment .
now , if i were you i would just plan to repair the old church so it would last for five or ten years .
then wilson asked , `` what about this kent house which you mention ? ?
the young banker looked at him with a certain surprise , and then he said flatly : `` i'm afraid i can't tell you anything in particular about kent house .
hope to see you again '' .
it was next day that sojourner came and sat beside him and took his hand .
`` no '' , said wilson , `` i don't .
what is it '' ? ?
they hire a good deal of local labor , including two members of our trustee board .
wilson stared at her .
`` talk to mrs. catt '' , she said .
this , of course , was the sort of thing that used to take place in southern cities -- putting white houses of prostitution with colored girls in colored neighborhoods and carrying them on openly .
but this situation of kent house was more subtle .
the inmates were white and from out of town , avoiding local friction .
good wages , patronage and subscription of various kinds stopped open protest from negroes .
and for him to leave this job now without accomplishing anything would mean practically the end of his career in the methodist church , if not in all churches .
there was a fog , which increased the darkness of the night .
he might have been anywhere or nowhere .
secretary of state seward was a sick man .
the sick were always receiving medicines .
the bottle was filled up with flour .
now it would have another death .
he clomped heavily up the stoop and rang the bell .
it was still good friday , after all .
payne did not notice him .
if their schedules were to synchronize , there was no point in wasting time .
for a moment the hall confused him .
he had no idea where seward's room would be .
above him somewhere were the bedrooms .
he explained his errand , but without bothering much to make it plausible , for he felt something well up in him which was the reason why he had fled the army .
he was no longer worried .
he knew that in this mood he could not be stopped .
it was a thrill he felt no part in .
he brushed by the idiotic boy and lumbered heavily up the stairs .
the sound of his footsteps was like a muffled drum .
he stopped and whispered his errand .
panting a little , payne shook his head .
frederick seward said his father was sleeping , and then went through a pantomime at his father's door , to prove the statement .
`` i will go '' .
he pulled out his pistol and fired it .
it had misfired .
it was the first blow that was always difficult .
he got caught up into it and became a different person .
the nigger boy fled down the stairs , screaming , `` murder '' .
payne was more methodical than that .
he ran for the sick room , found his pistol was broken , and threw it away .
from childhood he had known all about knives .
he smashed it in and tumbled into darkness .
he went for the bed , jumped on it , and struck where he could , repeatedly .
two men pulled him off .
payne hacked at their arms .
he would not have wanted to hurt a lady .
when the knife went into his chest , he went down at once .
`` i'm mad '' , and only wished he had been .
but he was not mad .
he clattered down the stairs and out of the door .
one always wakes up , even from one's own dreams .
herold , he saw , had fled .
he unhitched his horse , walked it away , mounted , and spurred it on .
then the nigger boy turned back and he was alone .
he had no idea where he was .
an open field was better than a building , that was for sure , so he dismounted , turned off the horse , and plunged through the grass .
he knew he should get to cap , but he didn't know how .
cap would find him and take care of him .
violence always made him tired , but he was not frightened .
it was a part so familiar to him that he did not bother to think about it any more .
on a stage he always knew what to do , and tonight , to judge by the applause , he must be doing it better than usual .
that was one of the high spots of the play .
he was delighted to see them so happy .
everyone is ambivalent about his profession , if he has practised it long enough , but there were still moments when he loved the stage and all those unseen people out there , who might cheer you or boo you , but that was largely , though not entirely , up to you .
7 ,
laura keene had been in the green room .
since she could not act , one part suited her as well as any other , and so she was the first person to offer mr. lincoln a glass of water , holding it up to the box , high above her head , to miss harris , who had asked for it .
it was not so much that the shot had stunned the audience , as that they had been stunned already .
the theatre was hot and they were drugged with boredom .
the audience was fond of harry hawk , he was a dear , in or out of character , but he was not particularly funny .
meanwhile it looked at the scenery .
said trenchard , otherwise hawk .
that was when the gun went off .
guns were going off all over washington city these days , because of the celebrations , and the theatre was not soundproof .
`` sic semper tyrannis '' , it said mildly .
behind him billowed a small pungent cloud of smoke .
they had not heard what had been said .
the figure leapt from the box , almost lost its balance , the flag draped there tore in the air , the figure landed on its left leg , fell on its hands , and pressed itself up .
his speech faltered .
the figure was so theatrically dressed , that it was as though a character from some other play had blundered into this one .
this figure looked like the slave dealer from that .
there was something maimed and crazy about its motion that disturbed them .
harry hawk had not shifted position , but he at last lowered his arm .
there was no mistaking that scream .
yet this scream had a different note in it .
clara harris , one of the guests in the box , stood up and demanded water .
when something unexpected happened , one always asked for water if one were a woman , brandy if one were a man .
in the presidential box someone leaned over the balustrade and yelled : `` he has shot the president '' ! !
on the stage , harry hawk began to weep .
the crowd began to move .
it was not exactly panic they gave way to , but they could not just sit there .
at the rear of the auditorium , upstairs , some men tried to push open the door to the box corridor .
a dr. charles taft clambered up on the stage and got the actors to hoist him up to the box .
someone opened the corridor door from the inside , and called for a doctor .
he went straight to the presidential box .
there was a little blood on the hem of her dress , for the assassin had slashed miss harris's companion , major rathbone , with a knife .
by the look of him he wasn't that far gone .
once more , katie reared , and whinnied in fear .
stevie twisted and , frantically , commanded the mare to leap straight ahead .
with a bold arm , he dared once more to obstruct them .
the stranger leered .
it was absurd .
he saw the ground coming up -- and the stranger's head .
the blow encountered silky hair and hard bone .
katie scrambled to her feet , stevie agilely retaining his seat .
he could feel his own feet , iron-shod , striking repeatedly until the body was limp .
he heard himself chortling .
only the top of the head , with a spot bare and white as a clamshell , remained visible .
a train hooted .
they were pursuing him .
his fists clutched so tightly that his knuckles hurt .
`` stevie ! !
his mother was nudging him , but he was still falling .
before it was sprawled the mangled corpse of the bearded stranger .
we're nearly there '' .
he was safe in his mama's arms .
houses winked as the cars rolled beside a little depot .
the trainman called .
chapter 6
bong ! !
the room vibrated as if a giant hand had rocked it .
a dull boom and a throbbing echo .
he stared at the far morning , expecting a pendulum to swing across the horizon .
he raced to the window and yanked at the sash .
the wood was old , the paint alligatored .
a fresh breeze saluted him .
he put his head out .
ivy climbed the red brick walls like a green-scaled monster .
in the kitchen mama was wiping the cupboards .
and the loudest clock in the whole world '' ! !
`` they say that our steeple is one hundred and sixty-two feet high .
he dressed , and sped outdoors .
the steeple leaned backward , while the church advanced like a headless creature in a long , shapeless coat .
port jervis , basking in the foothills , was the city of god .
the episcopal church was one block down sussex street ; ;
the catholics had the largest cemetery , near the neversink river where main street ran south ; ;
god was everywhere , in the belfry , in the steeple , in the clouds , in the trees , and in the mountains hulking on the horizon .
so , walking in awe , he became familiar with god , who resided chiefly in drew centennial church with its high steeple and clock .
to know god he must follow in papa's footsteps .
the veterans , idling on their benches in the square , beneath the soldiers' monument , got to their feet when papa approached : `` morning , reverend '' ! !
`` we have nine hundred and eleven members in our charge '' , mama announced , `` and three hundred and eighty sunday-school scholars '' .
although they journeyed westerly as far as germantown , beyond the erie roundhouse and the machine shop , and along the delaware and hudson canal , and northward to brooklyn , below point peter , he could see the church spire wherever he looked back .
-- and crossed the suspension bridge to matamoras ; ;
in the delaware river , three long islands were overgrown with greening trees and underbrush .
on these excursions , papa instructed him on man's chief end , which was his duty to god and his own salvation .
where cuddleback brook purled into the neversink was a magnificent swimming hole .
stevie saw no idols ; ;
he was torn between the excitement in the sun-inflamed waters and a little engine chugging northward on the monticello branch .
ludie inquired every evening , pretending that he did not care .
`` no , he won't '' ! !
`` not me '' ! !
he made a will and last testament before we left paterson .
uncle and aunt howe were the witnesses '' .
`` everybody does '' .
to speak of papa dying was a sin .
stevie was constantly slipping into the church .
the cold , mysterious presence of god was all around him .
far away , standing before a curtained window in the study room , was his father , hands tucked under his coattails , and staring into the dark church .
the boy shuddered at the deathly pale countenance with its wrinkles and gray hair .
the mouth was thin-lipped and wide , the long cleft in the upper lip like a slide .
`` it's time you began to think on god , stephen .
therefore , give him your affection and store up his love for you .
for his mercy and his guidance to spare you from evil and eternal punishment in the lake of fire '' .
for he feared the lake of fire .
he must pray to be spared .
not george , townley , or ted , certainly not ludie .
someday god would choose him .
the stern face would relax , the black-clad arms would embrace him , `` my son '' ! !
probably , as in scriptures , a still , small voice would whisper .
if he missed it , never again .
he must not fail to hear it .
therefore , nothing but good could happen to him , even in god's wrathful storms .
aggie might fly into a closet , shut the door and bury her head in the clothes ; ;
lightning could strike you blind if you were a sinner ! !
he clenched his fists and faced the terror .
barrels tumbled down the mountainsides , and bounced and bounced till their own fury split them open .
not of drew church .
violet whinnied from the stable .
`` don't be afraid , violet '' ! !
`` don't you be afraid '' ! !
if there was a fire or a flood he would save mama first and violet next .
`` don't you be afraid , violet '' ! !
when the sun came out , stevie strode proudly into orange square , smiling like a landlord on industrious tenants .
even before the benches had dried , the civil war veterans were straggling back to their places .
he jumped .
he trailed ludie to the baseball game in the lot on kingston street near the dutch reformed .
ludie screeched at him .
no one told on ludie , not even when he slipped live grasshoppers into the mite-box .
ludie took his slingshot and climbed to the rooftop to shoot at crows .
ludie had a cigar box full of marbles and shooters , and a roman candle from last fourth of july .
he came home overheated , ran straight to the ice-chest , and gulped shivery cold water .
that ludie ! !
on the christophers' lawn , little girls in white pinafores were playing grownups at a tea party .
stevie yearned for a dog .
he meandered down pike street , past the first national bank with its green window shades .
a tall lady , with a ruffled collar very low on her bosom , turned insolent green eyes upon him .
she was so beautiful with her rosy mouth and haughty air that she had to be wicked .
a piano tinkled .
they stayed at hotels and boardinghouses , or at private homes .
if the crummy bastard could write ! !
it's those two fucken niggers ! !
nigger pussy .
oh , sweet land of heaven , haint there just nothin like sweet nigger pussy ! !
he had caught her coming out of the shack .
oh how they bounced ! !
man , how i love nigger pussy ! !
he thought of joe harris , the nigger who had gone after his sister .
jee-sus , we fixed him ! !
the snow again .
goddamn niggers , lord .
sonuvabitch , i can't figure out what in hell for they went and put niggers in my squad for .
he ain't so bad .
the big shock everybody had when they found ol slater and those others done for .
he had been pretty scared himself , wondering what the hell was coming off .
soon came back to his senses .
i was the first to get my squad on the ball , and anybody thinkin it was easy is pretty damn dumb .
that goddamn redheader was the worst .
`` i told him '' , he said aloud they'll get the guys that done it .
normal , by god .
maybe they'll stop it now , once for all .
they're doin it now .
they'll get the guys that done it .
keerist .
his eyes blinked hard , snapping on and squashing some bad things that were trying to push their way into him .
one of his favorites : `` guitar boogie '' .
the music drove them off , or away , and he was free to walk on air in a very few moments , humming and jiving within , beating the rhythm within .
turn the bastards over to me -- to me and my boys -- no nigger ever got what would be comin to them -- reactionary bastards .
it was a word he was proud of , a word that meant much to him , and he used it with great pleasure , almost as if it were an exclusive possession , and more : he sensed himself to be very highly educated , four cuts above any of the folks back home .
the word also made him feel hate , sincere hate , for those so labeled .
it came up again and again in the discussion sessions .
months .
not captured , sent here .
you guys remember that .
he saw himself before them delivering the speech .
one day , ching had told him ( smiling , patting him on the back ) as they walked to the weekly conference of squad leaders , `` keep it up , your squad is good , one of the best , keep it up , keep up the good work '' .
that was really something , coming from ching .
dirty reactionary bastards comin down here in the night and bumpin off ol slater and those other poor bastards .
'' his arm moved swiftly , violently , once , twice .
he was tingling within .
it was as if it had been done .
he halted , and looked around .
the thought came back , the one nagging at him these past four days .
but the words were forming .
he braced himself .
he fought it , seeking to kill the last few words , but on they came out .
but it didn't .
the final word came forth .
`` bout takin his place '' he listened , waited , nothing happened .
his old self .
stroked him , snaked all through him , the lyrics lifted him , took him from one magic isle to another , stopping briefly at each brandon .
damn good .
johnson .
but he isn't with it , not at all with it .
no one is stupid .
he oughta know .
so you're not tryin , johnson , you bastard you .
how he loathed him .
he was the guy what always goofed at question time .
why me ? ?
why slater ? ?
the music surged up , but it failed to check it .
the guy with most on the ball .
handle men .
knows the score with a supreme effort , he broke it off .
a gnawing and gnashing within him .
huge glob-flakes hitting the ground , piling higher and higher .
the whole fucken sky's cavin in ! !
cover the whole building , bury us all , by nightfall .
somebody , got to be somebody if i don't put my two cents in soon , somebody else will i know they're waitin only for one thing : for the bastards what done it to be nailed .
he was again tingling with pleasure , seeing himself clearly in slater's shoes .
ching , tien , all of them .
poor ol slater .
he whirled about suddenly .
somebody was up .
`` boy , you're stirrin early '' , a sleepy voice said .
`` yehhh '' , said coughlin , practically spitting on him .
that's the way .
goddamn it .
less bull the more you can do with em .
all he does is to bullshit with his squad , and they are the stupidest bastards around .
plenty of room there now .
you can do anything with these dumb fucks if you know how .
they'd cut their mothers' belly open .
see , he's already snapping it up , the dumb jerk .
he watched the snow once again .
it made no sense to him .
`` you , listen ! !
quick -- quick -- now '' ! !
finnegan woke up .
he stared out the window .
the whole fucken sky's caved in ! !
it was that prick coughlin .
why didn't he drop dead ? ?
how ? ?
is this a nut-house ? ?
is this for real ? ?
from somewhere in the hut came coughlin's voice .
how long , buddy '' ? ?
a voice pleaded .
just answer .
''
did i start the damn war ? ?
capitalism rots from the core .
who did ? ?
i thought i knew .
i'll bet both together did .
so fuck them both .
goddammit .
the waves breakin in on you and your girl at night there on the warm beach in the moonlight .
i hated the goddamn army from the first day i got in anyhow .
fuck them .
he snuggled into the blanket .
he was sitting on top of a log which was spinning round and around in the water .
the log was spinning .
so what ? ?
( he asked this out loud , but no one heard it over the other noise in the hut ) .
he couldn't make out what he was saying .
why should he be concerned ? ?
but while the two men are riding into the country , where they are going to dinner , they are attacked in the dark of the forest by a band of thieves , who strip them of everything , including most of their clothes .
`` a learned man '' ? ?
but voltaire perseveres .
`` at what university did you study '' ? ?
he refuses to believe that the bandit chief never attended a higher institution .
the chief , annoyed by these questions , knocks voltaire down and shouts at him that he not only never went to any school , but never even learned how to read .
for it is such a distinguished place , with such fine works of art and such a big library , that there can be little doubt but that the owner has become depraved by all this culture .
immediately after dinner , however , rousseau asks for still another favor .
he is in a hurry to write another essay against culture .
how cruel ! !
how could the rich , for whom life was made so simple , ever understand the subterfuges , the lies , the frauds , the errors , sins and even crimes to which the poor were driven in their efforts to overcome the great advantages the rich had in the race of life ? ?
this time as a musician .
ever since he had first begun to study music and to teach it , rousseau had dreamed of piercing through to fame as the result of a successful opera .
and his efforts to get a performance for his gallant muses invariably failed .
his operatic music had little merit .
he was really amazed to discover the other guests so excited about these delicate little songs .
`` string them onto some sort of little plot , and you'll have a delightful operetta '' .
`` nonsense '' , he said .
`` heaven forbid '' ! !
`` you must make an opera out of this material '' .
oh , the irony and the bitterness of it ! !
or at least appear to reject it ! !
you couldn't on the one hand decry the arts and at the same time practice them , could you ? ?
but now music too ? ?
that would be too much ! !
the fault was rameau's and that of the whole culture of this parisian age .
these little songs , however , were sweet nothings from the heart , tender memories of his childhood , little melodies that anyone could hum and that would make one want to weep .
he couldn't appear as a composer now .
still , just for the ladies , and just for this once , for this one weekend in the country , he would make a little piece out of his melodies .
and everyone went to work to learn the parts which he wrote .
rousseau was aware that he must seem like a hypocrite , standing there and arguing that he could not possibly permit a public performance .
a contradiction ? ?
every woman has had the experience of saying no when she meant yes , and saying yes when she meant no .
`` i'd simply like to know if it is as good as you kind people seem to think '' , he said .
the musicians of the royal opera would not rehearse a work merely to see how it would sound .
rousseau agreed .
duclos understood what was bothering rousseau : that the writer of the prosopopoeia of fabricius should now become known as the writer of an amusing little operetta .
but duclos thought he saw a way out .
`` your name will never appear .
to that rousseau could agree .
afraid at one and the same time that his work might be turned down -- which would be a blow to his pride even though no one knew he was the author -- and that the work would be accepted , and then that his violent feelings in the matter would certainly betray how deeply concerned he was in spite of himself .
and thus torn between his desire to be known as the composer of a successful opera and the necessity of remaining true to his proclaimed desire for anonymity , rousseau suffered through several painful weeks .
imagine the honor of it ! !
jean jacques asked , striving to appear unimpressed .
`` what else could i do ? ?
but i said i would first have to get the author's permission .
how infuriating all this was ! !
now , when everything was opening up to him -- even the court of louis 15 ! !
back and forth duclos had to go , between m. de cury and jean jacques and between the duke d'aumont and jean jacques again , as his little operetta , the village soothsayer , though still unperformed , took on ever more importance .
but they , naturally , kept his secret well , and the public at large knew only of a great excitement in musical and court circles .
the furor was such that people who could not possibly have squirmed their way into the rehearsals were pretending that they were intimate with the whole affair and that it would be sensational .
he felt himself now , as he himself says in his confessions , at a crucial point of his life .
on the contrary , he was pleased that his face showed a neglect of several days .
`` you can't go in that way '' ! !
`` why not '' ? ?
`` who is going to stop me '' ? ?
they pointed out to him .
`` neither better nor worse '' .
`` but here you are in the palace .
and madame de pompadour '' .
`` and even more right .
`` but in such a slovenly condition '' .
rousseau asked .
surely it would grow there whether i washed myself or not .
and those without beards would have stood out as not dressed for the occasion .
that's the fashion .
not louis 15 , , since even he obeys .
but of course behind his boldness he didn't feel bold at all .
and this in addition to his usual fear of being among people of high society , his fear of making some inane or inappropriate remark .
could he walk out in the midst of his piece ? ?
before the king ? ?
the rider from concord was as good as his word .
`` they're a-coming ! !
we heard him before he ever showed , and we heard him yelling after he was out of sight .
i think you could have heard him a mile away , and he was bursting at every seam with importance .
that's understandable , and i appreciate the sentiment .
but i do know that he gave the day tone and distinction .
we came down off the wall as if he had toppled all of us , and we crouched behind it .
whatever we felt about the redcoats , we respected them in terms of their trade , which was killing ; ;
i wanted to wipe my flint , but i didn't dare to , the state my hands were in , just as i didn't dare to do anything about the priming .
i put a lot more trust in my two legs than in the gun , because the most important thing i had learned about war was that you could run away and survive to talk about it .
and in that brief interval , a redcoat officer came tearing down the road , whipping his horse fit to kill .
but when he passed us by , a musket roared , and he reared his horse , swung it around , and began to whip it back in the direction from which he had come .
from above me and somewhere behind me , a rifle cracked .
half crazed by the weight dragging , the dust , and the heat , the horse leaped our wall , dashing out the rider's brains against it , and leaving him lying there among us -- while the horse crashed away through the brush .
for what had happened on the common was only terror and flight ; ;
and now the redcoats were coming , and the gunfire was a part of the dust cloud on the road to the west of us .
the passage and rhythm of time changed , and when i remember back to what happened then , each event is a separate and frozen incident .
yet it could not have been more than a matter of seconds , and then the front of the british army came into view .
in the very front rank , two men were wounded and staggered along , trailing blood behind them .
they marched with bayonets fixed , and as fixed on their faces was anger , fear , and torment .
`` committeemen , hold your fire ! !
a voice called , and what made it even more terrible and unreal was that the redcoat ranks never paused for an instant , only some of them glancing toward the stone wall , from behind which the voice came .
my cousin simmons carried a musket , but he had loaded it with bird shot , and as the officer came opposite him , he rose up behind the wall and fired .
the next a headless horror on a horse that bolted through the redcoat ranks , and during the next second or two , we all of us fired into the suddenly disorganized column of soldiers .
the next , a cloud of gun smoke covered a screaming fury of sound , out of which the redcoat soldiers emerged with their bayonets and their cursing fury .
but i have no memory of that .
and then i was adding my own voice to the crescendo of sound , hurling more vile language than i ever thought i knew , sobbing and shouting , and aware that if i had passed water before , it was not enough , for my pants were soaking wet .
and then i came to some sanity and plunged away with such extraordinary speed that i outdistanced cousin simmons by far .
later we realized that the redcoats had stopped their charge at the wall .
we tumbled to a stop in deacon gordon's cow hole , a low-lying bit of pasture with a muddy pool of water in its middle .
isaac pitt , one of the men from lincoln , had taken a musket ball in his belly ; ;
it may appear that we were cruel and callous , but no one had time to spend sympathizing with poor isaac -- except the reverend .
i was drunk with excitement and the smell of gunpowder that came floating down from the road , and the fact that i was not afraid now , but only waiting to know what to do next .
we were less than a quarter of a mile from the road , and we could trace its shape from the ribbon of powder smoke and dust that hung over it .
and about a mile to the west a cluster of at least fifty militia were making their way in our direction .
i didn't offer any advice , but i certainly did not want to go back to where the officer lay with his brains dashed out .
but cousin simmons said he had watched them marching west early in the morning , and moving at a much brisker pace it had still taken half an hour for their column to pass , what with the narrowness of the road and their baggage and ammunition carts .
it was the opinion of some of us that these must be part of the committeemen who had been in the battle of the north bridge , which entitled them to a sort of veteran status , and we felt that if they employed this tactic , it was likely enough the best one .
`` it makes sense .
that settled it , and we broke into parties of two and three .
i went off with cousin simmons , who maintained that if he didn't see to me , he didn't know who would .
`` i learned that now '' , i said .
there was a clump of trees that appeared to provide cover right up to the road , and the shouting and gunfire never slackened .
three men were around him .
cousin simmons grabbed one of them by the shoulder and flung him away .
cousin simmons roared .
that summer the gambling houses were closed , despite the threats of pierre ameaux , a gaming-card manufacturer .
the bordel and other places of prostitution were emptied .
drunkenness was no longer tolerated .
plunking themselves down on the front bench , they turned to smirk at those around them .
but the thought occurred that god would want this opportunity used to tell them about him .
he finished the worship service as if there had been no brazen attempt to dishonor god and man .
`` i have told you before , and i tell you again '' , monsieur favre said rudely .
john stiffened in anger .
i say to you that the church will ever decry evil '' ! !
monsieur favre sat down in his high-backed stall , lips compressed , eyes glinting .
every eye was on him as he began to speak .
how can we have a good city unless we respect morality '' ? ?
`` we all know that jake camaret and the woman are brazenly living together .
philibert berthelier , the son of the famous patriot , disagreed .
he is throttling the liberty my father gave his life to win '' ! !
`` there can be no compromise when souls are in jeopardy '' .
before them stalked the beadle , proclaiming as he went , `` thus the council deals with those who break its laws -- adulterers , thieves , murderers , and lewd persons .
john's thoughts raced painfully into the past as he read the letter he had just received from his sister mary .
the canons , in a body , had tried to force him on his deathbed to let them give him the last rites of the church , but he had died still proclaiming salvation by faith .
the abbot of st. eloi , claude de mommor , had been a good friend , but not even he thought charles deserved burial in hallowed ground .
the blue-draped virgin was still there , but no one knelt before her now .
she , too , prayed only to god .
but he had to follow the light .
the white-clad trees stood like specters in the february night .
a carriage crunched by , its dim lights filtering through the gloom .
the city had recently given him a small salary , but it was not enough to supply even necessities .
john recognized ablard corne and called out a greeting .
there were several on the council who tried to live like christians .
quickening his steps , john entered the vast church and climbed the tower steps to the bells .
john leaned upon the stone balustrade .
below the moon-splashed world rolled away to insurmountable white peaks ; ;
he stood very still , his arms at his sides , staring up at the heavens , then down at the blinking lights below .
how long ? ?
sleep was difficult these days .
severe headaches were frequent .
an occasional traveler from italy brought news of peter robert , who was now distributing his bible among the waldensian peasants .
he had anthony and william to confide in and consult .
john found it difficult , but he held him in check .
his easy good looks made him a favorite with the ladies .
refugees poured in , signing the confession and rules in order to remain , and then disregarding them .
catholics who were truly christians longed for the simple penance of days gone by .
why , oh why , doesn't he stick to preaching the gospel , instead of meddling in civic affairs , politics , economics , and social issues that are no concern of the church '' ? ?
we will have righteousness '' ! !
unless the confusion cleared , he would not be coming here much longer .
the slow tapping of a cane on the stone steps coming up to the tower interrupted his reverie .
eli corault ! !
what is he doing here at this hour ? ?
`` john ? ?
i came to warn you of a plot '' ! !
what now ? ?
`` plot '' ? ?
`` monsieur favre just paid me a visit .
two anabaptists , caroli and benoit , are to challenge you and william to a debate before the council .
you know the law : if you lose the debate after accepting a challenge , you will be banished '' ! !
`` you are to be accused of arianism to confuse the religious who remain loyal '' .
ever since the fourth century a controversy had raged over the person of christ .
peter caroli had come to geneva , saying that he had been a bishop of the church of rome and had been persecuted in paris for his reformed faith .
but michael sept had unmasked him , revealing he had never been a bishop , but was an anabaptist , afraid to state his faith , because he knew john calvin had written a book against their belief that the soul slept after death .
john sighed .
`` there is more to the conspiracy .
furthermore , bern decrees that we must do as we are ordered by the council , preach only the word of god and stop meddling in politics '' ! !
matters such as leavened or unleavened bread are inconsequential .
we will not yield to the demands of bern '' ! !
`` monsieur favre indicated that if i would co-operate , after you and william are banished , following the debate , i will be given a place of influence '' .
`` that i would rather be banished with two such christians than be made the chief syndic '' ! !
then suddenly a group of men and dogs circled him .
he stood very still , his heart thumping wildly .
`` are you going to comply with the demands of bern '' ? ?
`` arianist '' ! !
`` heretic '' ! !
`` know this : the ministers will not yield to the demands of bern '' .
somebody heaved a stone .
when he felt the side of his head , his fingers came away covered with blood .
and another .
pierre ameaux , the gaming-card manufacturer said , his little pig eyes glaring .
the crowd moved back and john started dizzily down the hill .
then he slipped and went down on his hands and knees in the melting snow .
one , more horrible than the rest , lunged , growling deep in his throat , his hair bristling .
standing in the shelter of the tent -- a rejected hospital tent on which the rain now dripped , no longer drumming -- adam watched his own hands touch the objects on the improvised counter of boards laid across two beer barrels .
a quarter inch this way or that for the hardbake , or the toffee , or the barley sugar , or the sardines , or the bitters , or the condensed milk , or the stationery , or the needles -- what could it mean ? ?
he recognized the gesture .
he had seen a dry , old , yellowing hand reach out , with that painful solicitude , to touch , to rearrange , to shift aimlessly , some object worth a pfennig .
on such occasions he had not had the courage to look at the face above the hand , whatever face it might be .
he wondered what expression , as he made that gesture , was on his face .
but there was no need , he remembered , for his hand to reach out , for his face to show concern or stoicism .
then why was he assuming the role -- the gesture and the suffering ? ?
or was he now taking the role -- the gesture and the suffering -- because it was the only way to affirm his history and identity in the torpid , befogged loneliness of this land .
he looked out of the tent at the company street .
beyond that misty gray of the rain , he saw the stretching hutment , low diminutive log cabins , chinked with mud , with doorways a man would have to crouch to get through , with roofs of tenting laid over boughs or boards from hardtack boxes , or fence rails , with cranky chimneys of sticks and dried mud .
in this heavy air , however , that device did not seem to help .
over the door was a board with large , inept lettering : home sweet home .
the men were huddled in those lairs .
he knew the faces of all , hairy or shaven , old or young , fat or thin , suffering or hardened , sad or gay , good or bad .
he had had the need to understand what life lurked behind the mask of flesh , behind the oath , the banter , the sadness .
he was seeing , somehow , the face of a young boy , the boy simms purdew must once have been , a boy with sorrel hair , and blue eyes dancing with gaiety , and the boy mouth grinning trustfully among the freckles .
his heart suddenly opened to joy .
if simms purdew would turn to him and say : `` adam , you know when i was a boy , it was a funny thing happened .
it would be a sign for the untellable , and he , adam , would understand .
he saw the sign above the door of the hut : home sweet home .
it was pullen james , the campmate of simms purdew .
adam watched the moisture flow from the poncho .
pullen james humbly lowered his head , pushed aside the hardtack-box door of the hut , and was gone from sight .
the street was again empty .
with enormous interest , adam watched his hands as they touched and shifted the objects on the board directly before him .
the form was swathed in an army blanket , much patched , fastened at the neck with a cord .
the feet wore army shoes , in obvious disrepair .
the gray face stared straight ahead in the drizzle .
the figure was close enough now for him to see the nose twitching to dislodge the drop clinging there .
then the figure moved on .
they did washing .
he recognized her because she was the one who , in a winter twilight , on the edge of camp , had once stopped him and reached down her hand to touch his fly .
she had queried in her soft guttural .
her name was mollie .
looking down the street after her , adam saw that she had again stopped and again removed one hand from the basket .
mollie the mutton was scratching her nose .
then the words fell into a pattern : `` mollie the mutton is scratching her nose , scratching her nose in the rain .
the pattern would not stop .
he felt trapped in that pattern , in the repetition .
`` what's the matter with me '' ? ?
he looked wildly around , at the now empty street , at the mud , at the rain .
he demanded .
he would consign the cash box into the hands of jed hawksworth , then stand by while his employer checked the contents and the list of items sold .
then what ? ?
his mind closed on that prospect , as though fog had descended to blot out a valley .
in one of the huts a group of men were huddled together , singing .
he strained to hear .
let the water and the blood from thy riven side flow ! !
he thought : i am a jew from bavaria .
that other jew , a young man too , had left that greatcoat behind , in a rich house , and marched away .
he had plunged into the dark woods beyond .
what had that man , that other young jew , felt as he stood in the twilight and heard other men , far away , singing together ? ?
he thought of the men , the nameless thousands , huddling in them .
he thought of simms purdew , who once had risen at the edge of a cornfield , a maniacal scream on his lips , and swung a clubbed musket like a flail to beat down the swirl of rebel bayonets about him .
he felt the sweetness of pity flood through him , veining his very flesh .
they did not know who they were or know their own worth .
then he thought of aaron blaustein standing in his rich house saying : `` god is tired of taking the blame .
he thought of the old man laughing under the glitter of the great chandelier .
adam rose from the crouch necessary to enter the hut .
a pot was boiling on the coals .
adam nodded .
and look what he done give us '' .
`` what is it '' ? ?
`` chicken '' , mose said , and theatrically licked his lips .
he licked his lips again .
a chicken with six tits and a tail lak a corkscrew .
mose giggled .
it is the same ole same , tell me its name .
it is salt po'k .
that po'k , it was so full of skippers it would jump and run and not come when you say , hoo-pig .
he dumped the pan of crumbled hardtack into the boiling pot of lobscouse .
he stopped stirring and looked over his shoulder .
he demanded .
adam shook his head .
she was a child too much a part of her environment , too eager to grow and learn and experience .
one soft evening -- that marvelous sea-blessed time when the sun's departing warmth lingers and a smell of spume and wrack haunts everything -- amy had picked herself off the floor and begun to walk .
laura was sitting in an easy chair about eight feet away .
then , gently , he shoved her behind toward laura .
she lost not a second , picking herself up and continuing her pilgrimage to laura .
in a few minutes she was making the ten-foot hike unaided ; ;
some liar's logic , a wisp of optimism as fragile as the scent of tropical blossoms that came through the window ( a euphoria perhaps engendered by the pill fritzie had given her ) , consoled her for a moment .
through the swathings of terror , she jabbed deceit's sharp point -- amy would be reborn , a new child , with new parents , living under new circumstances .
gazing at her husband's drugged body , his chest rising and falling in mindless rhythms , she saw the grandeur of his fictional world , that lush garden from which he plucked flowers and herbs .
she admired him .
he seemed to be muttering , his voice surprisingly clear .
`` 'nother minute i'd have been fine .
laura touched his hand .
i should have '' .
the heat intensified on tuesday .
it could continue this way , hitting 106 and more in the valley , joe mcfeeley knew , into october .
both had been up since 7:00 -- irv on the early-morning watch , mcfeeley unable to sleep during his four-hour relief .
the latter , thanking her for the coffee , had winked and muttered , `` sure 'nuff , honey '' .
with a hard eye , she informed moll : `` don't sure 'nuff me , officer .
sergeant moll understood .
her speech was barren of southernisms ; ;
not seeing her dark intelligent face , one would have gauged the voice as that of a westwood village matron , ten years out of iowa .
while she was thus engaged , mcfeeley questioned her about her whereabouts the previous day , any recollections she had of people hanging around , of overcurious delivery boys or repairmen , of strange cars cruising the neighborhood .
selena masters , joe realized , was her own woman .
when the parents emerged from the bedroom a few minutes later , the maid greeted them quietly .
`` maybe today'll be a good-news day '' .
moll took his coffee into the nursery .
someone would have to remain in the office continually .
he wanted to take the mother to headquarters at once and start her on the mug file .
he asked .
his face was bloated with drugging , redder than normal .
`` oh -- we managed '' , she said .
did anything happen during the night '' ? ?
`` a couple of tips we're running down -- nothing promising .
too bad your number is in the directory '' .
he settled on the sofa with his coffee , warming his hands on the cup , although the room was heavy with heat .
the previous night's horror -- the absolute failure , overcast with the intrusions of the press , had left them all with a wan sense of uselessness , of play-acting .
kidnaper spurns ransom ; ;
once , andrus walked by it , hastily scanned the bold black headline and the five-column lead of the article ( by duane bosch , staff correspondent -- age not given ) , and muttered : `` we a buncha national celebrities '' .
before that , he wanted to talk to the neighbors .
he could think of nothing else to tell them : no assurances , no hopeful hints at great discoveries that day .
mrs. andrus was talking to the maid , arranging for her to come in every day , instead of the four days she now worked .
the bulk of the press corps was covering rheinholdt's conference .
two men he did not recognize were sipping coffee and munching sweet rolls .
however , the litter remained , augmented by several dozen lunchroom suppers .
one of the reporters called to him : `` anything new , lieutenant '' ? ?
when mcfeeley was halfway to the door , the proprietor emerged -- a mountainous , dark man , his head thick with resiny black hair , his eyes like two of the black olives he imported in boatloads .
the master of the house , his nourished face unrevealing , consented to postpone his departure a few minutes to talk to the detective .
flanked by marble urns and alabaster lamps , they seemed to be posing for a tribal portrait .
a gross boy in his teens , shuffling in from the kitchen with a sandwich in his hands ; ;
then all four gathering on the sofa to face the inquisitor .
no , they hadn't seen anyone around ; ;
yes , they had read about the case ; ;
they offered no opinions , volunteered nothing , betrayed no emotions .
the skopas people seemed to him of that breed of human beings whose insularity frees them from tragedy .
the equation was simple : wealth brought them happiness , and their united front to the world was their warning that they meant to keep everything they had , let no one in on the secrets .
they possessed no outer fortifications , no hard shells of confidence ; ;
skopas expressed no curiosity over the case , offered no expression of sympathy , made no move to escort mcfeely to the door .
he had spoken to mrs. .
there remained a family named kahler , owners of a two-story tudor-style house on the south side of the andrus home .
mcfeeley noted the immaculate lawn and gardens : each blade of grass cropped , bright and firm ; ;
the door was answered by a slender man in his sixties -- straight-backed , somewhat clerical in manner , wearing rimless glasses .
mrs. kahler joined them .
both were dressed rather formally .
`` funny thing '' , mr. kahler said , when they were seated , `` when i heard you ringing , i figured it was that guy down the block , hausman '' .
kahler continued : `` i fixed his dog the other day and i guess he's sore , so i expected him to come barging in '' .
the dog refused to be scared off , so kahler had purchased some small firecrackers .
`` scared the hell out of him '' , kahler grinned .
both grinned at the detective .
in the dim underwater light they dressed and straightened up the room , and then they went across the hall to the kitchen .
he found the pilot light and turned on one of the burners for her .
they found the teakettle .
several sections of a loaf of dark bread ; ;
jam ; ;
in their search for what turned out to be the right breakfast china but the wrong table silver , they opened every cupboard door in the kitchen and pantry .
she appeared with the teacart and he opened the windows .
he didn't , but it was not really a question , and so he left the room , walked down the hall to the front of the apartment , hesitated , and then knocked lightly on the closed door of the study .
`` le petit dejeuner '' , harold said , in an accent that did credit to miss sloan , his high-school french teacher .
since ordinary breakfast-table conversation was impossible , it was at least something that they were able to offer eugene the sugar bowl with their sugar in it , and the plate of bread and butter , and that eugene could return the pitcher of hot milk to them handle first .
stirring , he said : `` i am sorry that my work prevents me from doing anything with you today '' .
harold put a teaspoonful of powdered coffee in his cup and filled it with hot water , and then , stirring , he sat back in his chair .
every time he moved or said something , the chair creaked again .
it went right on creaking under his own considerable weight , and all it needed , harold thought , was for somebody to fling himself back in a fit of laughter and that would be the end of it .
harold indicated the photograph on the wall and asked what church the stone sculpture was in .
they passed the marmalade , the bread , the black-market butter , back and forth .
eugene offered harold his car , to use at any time he cared to , and when this offer was not accepted , the armchair creaked .
eugene was in his pajamas and dressing gown , and on his large feet he wore yellow turkish slippers that turned up at the toes .
the first shrill ring of the telephone brought harold out into the hall .
at that moment the bathroom door flew open and eugene came out , with his face lathered for shaving , and strode down the hall , tying the sash of his dressing gown as he went .
between the telephone and the wall plug there was sixty feet of cord , and when the conversation came to an end , eugene carried the instrument with him the whole length of the apartment , to his bathroom , where it rang three more times while he was shaving and in the tub .
harold shook his head .
`` she wants you and barbara to have dinner with her tomorrow night '' .
when enough time had elapsed so that there was little likelihood of his returning for something he had forgotten , harold went out into the hall and stood looking into one room after another .
it was the most important-looking cradle he had ever seen .
a young woman who looked like alix , with her two children .
matching photographs in oval frames of mme bonenfant and an elderly man who must be alix's grandfather .
the schoolboy .
it was the kind of frame that is only put around the photograph of a dead person .
with the metal shutters closed , the dining room was so dark that it seemed still night in there .
the curtains were of the same material , and there were some big oil paintings -- portraits in the style of lancret and boucher .
the apex , the study where eugene slept , was light and bright and airy and cheerful .
looking around slowly , he saw a marble fireplace , a desk , a low bookcase of mahogany with criss-crossed brass wire instead of glass panes in the doors .
the portable record player with a pile of classical records beside it .
da-da-da-dum music could not be eugene's passion .
he tried the doors of the bookcase .
the titles he could read easily through the criss-crossed wires : works on theology , astral physics , history , biology , political science .
no novels .
the clock on the mantel piece was scandalized and ticked so loudly that he glanced at it over his shoulder and then quickly left the room .
her quarters were on the right as you walked into the building , and her small front room was clogged with heavy furniture -- a big , round , oak dining table and chairs , a buffet , with a row of unclaimed letters inserted between the mirror and its frame .
he waited until they were inside the elevator and then said : `` now what do we do '' ? ?
`` i guess '' .
they went to the flea market , expecting to find the treasures of europe , and found instead a duplication of that long double row of booths in tours .
they looked , even so .
barbara bought some cotton aprons , and harold bought shoestrings .
it took them over an hour to get back to the station where they should have changed , in order to take the line that went to the place redoute .
when he opened the door , there stood eugene , on his way out of the apartment .
he did not explain where he was going , and they did not ask .
`` do you think he could be having an affair '' ? ?
`` oh no '' , harold said , shocked .
`` i know , but there must be some other explanation .
`` and for that he needs a little bag '' ? ?
they had vermouth , sitting in front of a cafe .
they could have been perfectly happy here for ten whole days .
he felt them .
he reached out and felt the bath towel hanging on the towel rack over the tub .
he looked around the room and then called out : `` come here , quick '' ? ?
barbara asked , standing in the doorway .
there it is and there is what was in it .
that boat in the river , maybe '' .
`` there's a big boat anchored near the place de la concorde , with a swimming pool in it -- didn't you notice it ? ?
she looked at him in surprise .
`` i don't know what i'm going to do with you '' .
so something like this matters more than it would at home .
`` all because i didn't feel like dancing '' .
`` then what was it '' ? ?
i wish i did .
the thing about eugene is that he's very proud '' .
for instance -- what about all those people harold rhodes went toward unhesitatingly , as if this were the one moment they would ever have together , their one chance of knowing each other ? ?
and in any case , answers may clarify but they do not change anything .
they took jesus's body , then , and wrapped it in winding-clothes with the spices ; ;
listed as present at the descent were mary , mary's sister , mary magdalene , john , joseph of arimathea , nicodemus .
mostly the scene was crowded with mourners , such as the dramatic dell'arca lamentation in bologna , where the grief-stricken spectators had usurped mary's last poignant moment .
his first desire was to create a mother and son alone in the universe .
perhaps after the soldiers had laid him on the ground , while joseph of arimathea was at pontius pilate's asking for christ's body , nicodemus was gathering his mixture of myrrh and aloes , and the others had gone home to mourn .
they would feel what mary was undergoing .
these would be two human beings , whom god had chosen .
now she was intensely alive , anguished ; ;
even though he would later be resurrected , he was at this moment dead indeed , the expression on his face reflecting what he had gone through on the cross .
only what mary felt for her son .
mary would have to carry the human communication .
it was a relief to shift in his mind to technical problems .
his mary would be slender of limb and delicate of proportion , yet she must hold this full-grown man as securely and convincingly as she would a child .
he started by making free sketches to loosen up his thinking so that images would appear on paper .
at the same time he started walking the streets , peering at the people passing or shopping at the stalls , storing up fresh impressions of what they looked like , how they moved .
discovering that draperies could be designed to serve structural purposes , he began a study of the anatomy of folds .
no fold could be accidental , each turn of the drapery had to serve organically , to cover the madonna's slender legs and feet so that they would give substantive support to christ's body , to intensify her inner turmoil .
`` so that's sculpture '' , commented argiento wryly , when he had sluiced down the floor for a week , `` making mud pies '' .
`` see , argiento , if you control the way these folds are bunched , like this , or made to flow , you can enrich the body attitudes .
he went into the jewish quarter , wanting to draw hebraic faces so that he could reach a visual understanding of how christ might have looked .
the colony had been small until the spanish inquisition of 1492 drove many jews into rome .
many of their gifted members were prominent in the vatican as physicians , musicians , bankers .
he was told to ask for rabbi melzi at the synagogue on saturday afternoon .
he was reading from the talmud with a group of men from his congregation .
`` the bible forbids us to bow down to or to make graven images .
`` but , rabbi melzi , you don't object to others creating works of art '' ? ?
each religion has its own tenets '' .
i wish to make jesus an authentic jew .
the rabbi said thoughtfully , `` i would not want my people to get in trouble with the church '' .
i'm sure he would approve '' .
`` workmen .
not bulky laborers , but sinewy men .
and sensitivity '' .
`` leave me your address .
michelangelo hurried to sangallo's solitary bachelor room with his sketches , asked the architect to design a stand which would simulate the seated madonna .
michelangelo bought some scrap lumber .
his first model arrived at dusk .
he then draped him over the rough stand , explained that he was supposed to be recently dead , and was being held on his mother's lap .
only the instructions from his rabbi kept him from bolting .
he worked for two hours a day with each model sent by the rabbi .
though this sculpture must take place thirty-three years after her moment of decision , he could not conceive of her as a woman in her mid-fifties , old , wrinkled , broken in body and face by labor or worry .
jacopo galli introduced him into several roman homes .
since the santo spirito hospital had taken only men , he had had no experience in the study of female anatomy ; ;
he was able to discern the body lines of the roman women under their robes .
and a jesus who , though lean , was strong even in death a look he remembered well from his experience in the dead room of santo spirito .
soon he was ready to go into a three-dimensional figure in clay .
when he wanted to emphasize , or get greater intensity , he added or subtracted clay .
he respected each of these approach techniques , and kept them in character : his quill drawings had a scratchiness , suggesting skin texture ; ;
the wax he smoothed over to give the body surface an elastic pull .
they remained rough starting points .
too careful or detailed studies in clay and wax would have glued him down to a mere enlarging of his model .
drawing and models were his thinking .
10 .
argiento had been trained so rigorously by the jesuits that michelangelo was unable to change his habits : up before dawn to scrub the floors , whether they were dirty or not ; ;
`` argiento , this is senseless '' , he complained , not liking to work on the wet floors , particularly in cold weather .
scrub the studio once a week .
`` no '' , said argiento stolidly .
before dawn .
`` and god help anyone who tries to unteach you '' ! !
yet he knew that he had nothing to grumble about , for argiento made few demands on him .
on sundays he would walk miles into the campagna to visit with them , and in particular to see their horses .
frequently he would take his leave of michelangelo by announcing :
it took a piece of bad luck to show michelangelo that the boy was devoted to him .
he stumbled into the house , eyes burning like fire .
though the pain was considerable michelangelo was not too concerned .
but it would not come .
by the second day michelangelo began to worry ; ;
at dawn argiento went to jacopo galli .
the surgeon carried a cage of live pigeons .
the surgeon came back at dusk , cut the vein of a second pigeon , again washed out the eye .
the thin legs twitched convulsively once , then kate felt the little body stiffening in her arms and heard one strangled sound .
the child was gone .
''
he sat beside kate's bed with the others throughout the morning , talking , talking of god's will , while kate lay staring angrily at him .
few of the neighbors came , but mrs. tussle came , called by tragedy .
`` trouble never comes but in threes '' .
kate moved through all the preparations and services in a state of bewilderment .
`` god called her to him '' , the minister had said .
jonathan's letter came , as she knew it would , and he had accepted their child's death as another judgment from god against both kate and himself .
she held jonathan's letter , his words burning like a brand , and knew suddenly that the bonds between them were severed .
joel came and sat mutely with her , sharing her pain and anguish , averting his eyes from the ice packs on her bosom .
when she returned to life in the big house she felt shriveled of all emotion save dedication to duty .
she had even steeled herself to keep juanita upstairs in the nurse's room off the empty nursery , although the girl tried to insist on moving back to the quarters to spare kate remembrance of the baby's death .
seeing the slanting hand , kate knew uneasily that it was from the yankee colonel .
kate tried to contain her curiosity and foreboding at what the letter portended , at what involvement existed for juanita .
joel worked like a field hand in the afternoons after school .
kate felt she had deserted the boy in her own loss .
uncle randolph had been riding out every evening on some secret business of his own .
he claimed to be visiting the waterfront saloon at the crossroads to play cards and drink with his cronies , but kate had not smelled brandy on him since mrs. lattimer's funeral .
`` not this old fox '' , chuckled uncle randolph .
i aim to keep a little whisky still back in the ridge for my pleasure '' .
`` you're back there riding with the guerrillas , the moccasin rangers '' .
he patted the eye joel had had blackened in a fight over being rebel at the crossroads some days back .
stranger , uncle randolph began riding home nights with a jug strapped to his saddle , drunkenly singing `` old dan tucker '' at the top of his voice .
what he was about became clear to her with the circulation of another broadside proclamation by general mcclellan , threatening reprisals against rebel guerrillas .
kate drew more and more on her affection for joel through the hot days of summer work .
kate had walked past the school on her morning chores and had seen the whole incident , had seen joel's burning humiliation before miss snow's cold , bespectacled wrath .
these would be his hardest years , she knew , and he missed his father desperately .
whenever she found time , she went blackberry picking with him , and they would come home together , mouths purple , arms and faces scratched , tired enough to forget grief for another day .
he helped kate and juanita enlarge the flower garden in the side yard , where they sometimes sat in the still evenings watching the last fat bees working against the summer's purple dusk .
they stayed in their own world on the bluff , waiting for letters and the peddler , bringing the news .
of their first engagement at falling waters after old jack's first brigade had destroyed all the rolling stock of the b & o railroad .
the peddler came bawling his wares and told them of the convention in wheeling , which had formed a new state government by declaring the government at richmond in the east illegal because they were traitors .
`` cleaned all them rebs out'n the hills , they did ! !
the federals is making everybody take the oath of loyalty around these parts too '' , he crowed .
and the old man had given a sly and wicked laugh and said , `` hell , yes ! !
winking at joel's look of shock .
maj. anderson of fort sumter is home and recruiting volunteers for the u.s. army .
rumor of a big battle spread like a grassfire up the valley .
`` all dey know down dere is it were at manassas junction and it were a big fight '' , the old man told them .
it had been a big battle , and the confederate forces had won .
kate and mrs. tussle waited for letters anxiously .
when kate hurried in alarm to tell him to put it out , she saw other dots of flames among the western virginia hills from the few scattered fires of the faithful .
the week after manassas the sound of horses in the yard brought kate up in shock from an afternoon's rest when she saw the federal soldiers from her upstairs window .
were they to be insulted again because of the south's great victory ? ?
at the landing she saw juanita , her face flushed pink with excitement , run down the hall from the kitchen to the front door .
as kate came swiftly down the stairs to the hall she saw colonel marsh framed in the doorway , his face set in the same vulnerable look juanita wore .
`` what brings you here again , colonel marsh '' ? ?
`` i stopped to say goodbye , mrs. lattimer , and to tell you how sorry i was to hear about your baby .
`` it was a terrible loss to me '' , said kate quietly , feeling the pain twist again at the mention , knowing now that juanita must have written to him at grafton .
she asked him , seeing juanita's eyes grow bleak .
he has notified me that he has orders to go to washington to take over the army of the potomac .
`` when are you to leave '' ? ?
their eyes betrayed too much of their emotions , she thought sadly .
would you permit juanita to walk about the grounds with me for a short spell , mrs. lattimer '' ? ?
it would be better for joel and uncle randolph and mrs. tussle not to see them .
then she took iced lemonade to marsh's young aide where he sat in the cool of the big trees around the flower garden .
she sought kate out upstairs , her lips trembling .
`` what do you want to do '' ? ?
`` i could go with him .
but i am a slave ! !
it's your decision '' , said juanita , holding her face very still , trying to contain the bitterness of her voice as she enunciated her words too distinctly .
i have held your papers of manumission since i married mr. lattimer '' .
the two in the bed knew each other as old people know the partners with whom they have shared the same bed for many years , and they needed to say no more .
anita put out the remaining candles with a long snuffer , and in the smell of scented candlewick , the comforting awareness of each other's bodies , the retained pattern of dancers and guests remembered , their minds grew numb and then empty of images .
in the ballroom below , the dark had given way to moonlight coming in through the bank of french windows .
martha schuyler , old , slow , careful of foot , came down the great staircase , dressed in her best lace-drawn black silk , her jeweled shoe buckles held forward .
`` i don't hear the music .
she came to the ballroom and stood on the two carpeted steps that led down to it .
i say , where is everyone ? ?
she stood there , a large old woman , smiling at the things she would say to him in the morning , this big foolish baby of a son .
was it a birthday ball ? ?
or was it her own first ball as mistress of this big house , a van rensselaer bride from way upstate near albany , from rensselaerwyck .
martha picked up the hem of her gown and with eyes closed she slowly began to dance a stately minuet around the ballroom .
he had ridden hard from boston , and he was not used to horseback .
the road leading south along the river was shaded with old trees , and in the moonlight the silvery landscape was like a setting for trolls and wood gods rather than the hudson river valley of his boyhood memories .
he would cross to manhattan , to harlem heights , before morning .
he would send on by trusted messenger the dispatches with their electrifying news .
strange how everything here fitted back into his life , even if he had been away so long .
a mist was walking on the water , white as cotton , but with a blending and merging grace .
david reached for the pair of pistols in the saddlebags at his feet .
a strange wood creature came floating up from a patch of berry bushes .
it had the features of a man bewhiskered by clumps of loose feathers .
-- flapped as it ran .
black strips of skin hung from it .
david took a firm hand with it .
the ungainly bird thing ran away , and to david its croaking sounded like the crowing of a tormented rooster .
he drove on , wary and shaken .
chapter 10
it was thickly settled by fifteen thousand citizens and laid out into pig-infested streets , mostly around the battery , going bravely north to wall street , but giving up and becoming fields and farms in the region of harlem heights .
on the east side of the island of manhattan the indifferent hawk knew the east river that connected new york bay with long island sound .
it commanded a view over manhattan and the harbor .
husbandry was bounded by snake-rail fences , and there were grazing cattle .
the morning hawk , hungry for any eatable , killable , digestible item , kept his eyes on the ring of anchored ships that lay off the shores in the bay , sheltered by the jersey inlets .
the larger ships were near paulus hook , already being called , by a few , jersey city .
the news of battle on breed's hill had already seeped through , and new york itself was now left in the hands of the local provincial congress .
the gilt sterns of the men-of-war becoming clearer to him , the sides of the wooden sea walls alternately painted yellow and black , the bronze cannon at the ports .
on shore `` the freed slaves to despotism '' -- the town dwellers -- watched the ships and waited .
across the bay the palisades were heavy in green timber ; ;
below in the open bay facing manhattan was staten island , gritty with clam shells and mud flats behind which nested farms , cattle barns , and berry thickets .
today , tomorrow , six months , even perhaps a year
the british ships rolled at anchor , sent out picket boats and waited for orders from london .
david cortlandt , having slept away a day and a night , came awake in a plank farmhouse on the harlem river near spuyten duyvil .
the road seemed animated with a few more wagons than usual ; ;
the wraith-like events of the last few days flooded david's mind and he rubbed his unshaved chin and felt again the ache in his kidneys caused by his saddle odyssey from boston .
he had sent the dispatches downtown to the proper people and had slept .
orders not written down had to be transmitted to the local provincial government .
from the saddlebags , hung on a hitchcock chair , david took out a good english razor , a present from john hunter .
he hoped he was free of self-deception .
there would be great need soon for his skill as surgeon , but somehow he had not planned to use his knowledge merely for war .
he knew that many were using it for their own ends .
he stropped the razor slowly ; ;
that some men did not want it he could understand .
yet some , like morris manderscheid , would bankrupt themselves for the new ideas .
injury and ingratitude would occur .
war was a smugglers' heaven .
things like that would increase rather than be done away with .
he saw with john hunter now that the perfectability of man was a dream .
david began to shave with great sweeping strokes .
he drove sensual patterns off , carefully shaving his long upper lip .
david finished shaving , washed his face clean of lather , and combed and retied his hair .
more and more of the colonials were wearing their own hair and not using powder .
presentable in his wide-cut brown suit , the well-made riding boots .
in the meadow below , militia officers shouted at their men and on king's bridge two boys sat fishing .
he did not have to hurry it by thinking too much .
he began to pack the saddlebags .
burly leathered men and wrinkled women in drab black rags carried on in a primitive way , almost unchanged from feudal times .
he wondered how they could go on in poverty , superstition , ignorance , with a complete lack of desire to make either their land or their lives flourish .
tolek alterman had returned from the colonies in palestine and , before the national leadership , exalted the miracles of drying up swamps and irrigating the desert .
andrei remembered that his own reaction had been one of indifference .
it aggravated him .
in the unfertile land in palestine humans broke their backs pushing will power to the brink .
all of them were there in this loosely knit association of diversified ideologies , and each berated the other and beat his breast for his own approaches .
`` i do not care if your beliefs take you along a path of religion or a path of labor or a path of activism .
beyond the forest all our paths merge into a single great highway which ends in the barren , eroded hills of judea .
how we travel through the forest is for each man's conscience .
we all seek the same thing through different ways -- an end to this long night of two thousand years of darkness and unspeakable abuses which will continue to plague us until the star of david flies over zion '' .
it had sounded good to andrei , but he did not believe it .
he loathed the idea of drying up swamps or the chills of malaria or of leaving his natural birthright .
warsaw is my city , not tel aviv '' .
warsaw ! !
they had let this black hole of death in warsaw's heart exist without a cry of protest .
warsaw ! !
`` miss rak .
day by day , week by week , month by month , the betrayal gnawed at andrei's heart .
i hate warsaw , he said to himself .
all of poland is a coffin .
what matters now ? ?
only palestine , and i will never live to see palestine because i did not believe .
at a siding , another train which was a familiar sight these days .
jews .
they were not poles .
he walked toward the center of the city to keep his rendezvous with styka .
the bathyrans were all gone .
from the moment of the occupation lublin became a focal point .
lublin generally was the forerunner of what would happen elsewhere .
the bathyrans ran a check on globocnik and had only to conclude that he was in a tug of war with hans frank and the civilian administrators .
lublin was the seed of action for the `` final solution '' of the jewish problem .
a bevy of interlacing lagers , work camps , concentration camps erupted in the area .
plans went in and out of lublin , indicating german confusion .
lipowa 7 , sobibor , chelmno , poltawa , belzec , krzywy-rog , budzyn , krasnik .
the death's-head corps took in ukrainian and baltic auxiliaries , and the einsatzkommandos waded knee-deep in blood and turned into drunken , dope-ridden maniacs .
in the spring of 1942 operation reinhard began in lublin .
as the camp emptied , it was refilled by a draining of the camps and towns around lublin , then by deportees from outside poland .
what was happening in majdanek ? ?
was there another majdanek in the warsaw area , as they suspected ? ?
his watch told him he was still early .
he found an empty bench , opened a newspaper , and stretched his legs before him .
`` captain androfski '' ! !
styka sat beside him and pumped his hand excitedly .
i thought you might get in on a morning train '' .
styka studied his captain .
to him , andrei androfski had always been the living symbol of a polish officer .
`` remember to call me jan '' , andrei said .
`` when that woman found me and told me that you needed me i was never so happy since before the war '' .
styka grumbled about fate .
i got a girl in trouble and we had to get married .
so we have three children and responsibilities .
nothing like the old days in the army , but i get by .
many times i tried to reach you , but i never knew how .
`` i understand '' .
`` were you able to make the arrangements '' ? ?
`` there is a man named grabski who is the foreman in charge of the bricklayers at majdanek .
i told him you are on orders from the home army to get inside majdanek so you can make a report to the government in exile in london '' .
`` ten thousand zlotys '' .
`` he is aware he will not live for twenty-four hours if he betrays you '' .
`` captain jan must you go inside majdanek ? ?
`` not everyone , styka '' .
`` i don't know .
perhaps if they know the story there will be a massive cry of indignation '' .
`` i have to believe it '' .
`` i am only a simple soldier .
until i was transferred into the seventh ulanys i was like every other pole in my feeling about jews .
but my captain might have been a jew , but he wasn't a jew .
hell , sir .
you never knew about it , but by god , we taught them respect for captain androfski '' .
`` since the war i have seen the way the germans have behaved and i think , holy mother , we have behaved like this for hundreds of years .
`` how can you tell an insane man to reason or a blind man to see '' ? ?
the men of your company would not allow your name dishonored .
`` i have sat many hours with this , styka .
i've lost faith , styka .
but now i think i hate it very much '' .
the question frightened andrei .
`` i'm still a soldier in a very small way , styka '' .
grabski's shanty was beyond the bridge over the river bystrzyca near the rail center .
he was a square brick of a man with a moon-round face and sunken polish features .
half of it dripped down his chin .
`` well '' ? ?
grabski looked at the pair of them .
`` my cousin works at the labor bureau .
it will take a few days .
i don't know if i can get you into the inner camp .
grabski slurped his way to the bottom of the soup bowl .
`` orders from the home army '' .
nothing there but jews '' .
`` we get strange orders '' .
andrei peeled off five one-thousand-zloty notes .
his broad flat fingers , petrified into massive sausages by years of bricklaying , snatched the bills clumsily .
`` you get the rest when i'm safely out of majdanek '' .
andrei and styka were silent .
i'd have been more impressed if i hadn't remembered that she'd played hedda gabler in her highschool dramatics course .
`` nothing's free in the whole goddam world '' , was all i could think of to say .
`` i am '' , she said .
it was just me and eileen getting drunk together like we used to in the old days , and me staring at her across the table crazy to get my hands on her partly because i wanted to wring her neck because she was so ornery but mostly because she was so wonderful to touch .
i was crazy about her all over again .
that evening turned out to be hell like all the others .
it was the same old routine .
i did have the decency to call up thelma and tell her i'd met old friends and would be home late .
`` you know i don't like my men to have other women .
i hate it '' .
it was a walk up on hudson street .
there was a man's jacket on the chair and a straw hat on the table .
`` what about ballestre '' ? ?
`` precious .
suddenly she was very mysterious and dramatic .
we are above being jealous .
i'll just tell him you're my husband .
`` well i object .
`` that really would be funny '' .
she was still laughing when i grabbed her and started rolling her on the bed .
i'm not a plaster saint .
never in my life have i felt so remorseful about anything i've done as i did about spending that night with my own wife .
eileen declared she couldn't lift her head from the pillow .
i was stumbling in my undershirt trying to find my way around her damn kitchenette when i smelt that sickish sweet hairtonic smell .
i stiffened .
i turned around with the percolator in my hand .
brown eyes , eyebrow mustache .
we didn't have time to speak before eileen's voice was screeching at us from the bed .
exboyfriend meet exhusband '' .
`` and don't either of you forget that i'm not any man's property .
she was enjoying the situation .
eileen was a psychologist all right .
maybe he felt the same way .
first thing i knew he was in the kitchenette cooking up the breakfast and i was handing eileen her coffeecup and she was lying there handsome as a queen among her courtiers .
i didn't even have the nerve to call her on the telephone .
of course i had to give her eileen's address , but she never came near us .
she never said a word about the fifty dollars .
i must know that that was my greatest weakness underlined three times .
that finished me with thelma .
and there i was shacked up with eileen in that filthy fourth floor attic on hudson street .
i felt it and it ate on me all the time , but i didn't know how right i was till later .
he slept in the hall bedroom at the head of the stairs .
you wouldn't have me throw the poor boy out on the street '' , eileen said when i needled her about it .
eileen had a wonderful way of not listening to things she didn't want to hear .
to be on the safe side i never let eileen get out of my sight day or night .
i couldn't make out what his racket was .
he was smooth and civil spoken but it seemed to me there was something tough under his selfeffacing manner .
whenever the place was cleaned or a meal served it was precious who did the work .
he always seemed to have money in his pocket .
now and then he would disappear for several days .
`` oh he's just an international spy '' , eileen would shout with her screechy laugh .
he got no relief from drink because , though sometimes precious would buy himself a drink if he went out with us in the evening , he'd leave it on the table untouched .
occasionally if i pushed him too far he'd give me a look out of narrowed eyes and the hard cruel bony skull would show through that smooth face of his .
she just wouldn't listen .
eileen seemed to feel the same way .
the trouble was drinking cost money .
eileen must have wheedled a little out of precious .
i don't know what we would have done if pat o'dwyer hadn't come to town .
he had the same bullet head of curly reddish hair but he didn't have jim's pokerfaced humor or his brains or his charm .
now pat may have been a lecher and a plugugly , but he was a good churchgoing catholic and he loved his little sister .
pat took eileen and me out to dinner at a swell steak house and told us with tears in his eyes how happy he was we had come together again .
the o'dwyers were real religious people except for kate .
pat had been worried as hell ever since she'd lost her job on that fashion magazine .
how about me trying to help her get her job back ? ?
it just about blew us both out of the water when eileen suddenly came out with what she came out with .
my first thought was how had it happened so soon , but i counted back on my fingers and sure enough we'd been living together six weeks .
greatest thing that ever happened .
he'd come east for the christening , by god he would .
before he left town pat saw to it that i was fixed up with a job .
a friend of pat's named frank sposato had just muscled into the portwatchers' union .
most of them were elderly men .
they weren't as well paid as they should have been .
sposato needed a front , some labor stiff with a clean record to act as business agent of the redhook local .
for once radicalism was a recommendation .
with my gray hair and my weatherbeaten countenance i certainly looked the honest working stiff .
there was one fact which rector could not overlook , one truth which he could not deny .
no matter how devoted a man was , no matter how fully he gave his life to the lord , he could never extinguish that one spark of pride that gave him definition as an individual .
it was only natural that fletcher would strive for a position in which he could make the decisions .
he was not sure how much of this desire was due to his devotion to the church and how much was his own ego , demanding to be satisfied , for the two were intertwined and could not be separated .
but perhaps this was a part of the eternal plan , that man's ambition when linked with god would be a driving , indefatigable force for good in the world .
how foolish it was to try to fathom the truth in an area where only faith would suffice .
his first move was to send hino to the village to spend a few days .
in any event rector sent him to the local hospital to have it checked , telling him to keep his ears open while he was in the village to see if he could find out what kayabashi was planning .
he was allowed to spend his nights at an inn near the hospital and he was given some extra money to go to the pachinko parlor -- an excellent place to make contact with the enemy .
he was to get involved in no arguments ; ;
he was simply to listen and report back what he heard .
if he wanted to know anything , he would end up asking about it point-blank , but in this guileless manner he would probably receive more truthful answers than if he tried to get them by indirection .
from the moment that hino had first walked into the mission to ask for a job , any job -- his qualifications neatly written on a piece of paper in a precise hand -- he had been ready to become a christian .
he knew the fundamentals , and after studying with fletcher for a time he approached rector , announced that he wanted to be baptized and that was that .
hino talked very little about himself except for the infrequent times when he used a personal illustration in connection with another subject .
hino was the fourth son of an elderly farmer who lived on the coast , in chiba , and divided his life between the land and the sea , supplementing the marginal livelihood on his small rented farm with seasonal employment on a fishing boat .
he had gone into the japanese navy , had been trained as an officer , had participated in one or two battles -- he never went into detail regarding his military experience -- and at the age of twenty-five , quite as a bolt out of the blue , he had walked into the mission as if he belonged here and had become a christian .
often tempted to ask questions but he never did .
rector had no doubt that hino would come back from the village bursting with information , ready to impart it with his customary gusto , liberally embellished with his active imagnation .
he was surprised to find kayabashi's secretary on the other end of the line .
the oyabun was entertaining a group of dignitaries , the secretary said , businessmen from tokyo for the most part , and kayabashi wished to show them the mission .
`` oh '' ? ?
`` i guess it will be all right .
`` this afternoon '' , the secretary said .
`` all right '' , rector said .
he was about to hang up the phone , but a note of hesitancy in the secretary's voice left the conversation open .
`` i beg to inquire if the back is now safe for travelers '' , he said .
`` unless the oyabun has been working on it '' , he said , then checked himself and added : `` you can tell kayabashi-san that the back road is in very good condition and will be quite safe for his party to use '' .
the secretary sighed with relief and then the telephone clicked in rector's hand .
for the oyabun to make such a trip was either a sign of great weakness or an indication of equally great confidence , and from all the available information it was probably the latter .
at the same time , it was unlikely that any businessmen would spend a day in a christian mission out of mere curiosity .
when he had given the call a few moments thought , he went into the kitchen to ask mrs. yamata to prepare tea and sushi for the visitors , using the formal english china and the silver tea service which had been donated to the mission , then he went outside to inspect the grounds .
rector asked him to move it for the time being ; ;
a good initial impression would be important now .
`` how many pamphlets do we have in stock '' ? ?
`` i should say about a hundred thousand '' , fletcher said .
`` i would like to enact a little tableau this afternoon '' , rector said , he explained about the visit and the effect he wished to create , the picture of a very busy mission .
fletcher nodded as he listened to the instructions and said he would arrange the things rector requested .
he beckoned to her from the door and she slipped quietly outside .
`` how many children do you have present today '' ? ?
she looked back toward the schoolroom .
`` no , only fourteen .
she has a pretty bad cold '' .
i want to create the impression of a compound full of children .
mavis smiled .
as rector was walking back toward the residential hall , johnson came out of the basement and bounded up to him .
`` i think i've fixed the pump so we won't have to worry about it for a long time '' , he said .
'' `` fine '' , rector said .
it was going to take a lot of activity to fill it .
he said .
`` you are about to become a first-class surveyor '' , rector said .
konishi can help you .
the glass is out of it , but that won't matter .
he went on to explain what he had in mind .
he said he could do it .
it was rather a childish game , all in all , but everybody seemed to be getting into the spirit of the thing and he could not remember when he had enjoyed planning anything quite so much .
he was not going to lose the mission by default , and whatever reason kayabashi had for bringing his little sight-seeing group to the mission , he was going to be in for a surprise .
when everything had been done , rector went back to his desk to occupy himself with his monthly report until three o'clock .
then rector , attired in his best blue serge suit , sat in a chair out on the lawn , in the shade of a tree , smoking a cigarette and waiting .
she concluded by asking him to name another hour should this one be inconvenient .
he replied that he could not imagine what importance there might be in thus meeting with a stranger , but -- joy of joys , he would be at home at the hour mentioned .
she was told by the manservant who opened the door that his lordship was engaged on work from which he had left strict orders he was not to be disturbed .
she wrote again and now , abandoning for the moment the theme of love , she asked for help in the matter of her career .
his lordship was concerned in the management of drury lane but , if there were no opportunities there , would he read and criticize her novel ? ?
have you any objection to the following plan ? ?
there we shall be free and unknown ; ;
she concluded by asking for a brief interview -- `` to settle with you where '' -- and she threw in a tribute to his `` gentle manners '' and `` the wild originality of your countenance '' .
and he would see her that evening .
at their meeting he told her not to bother about `` where '' -- he would attend to that .
she sang him scott's charming ballad `` rosabelle '' , which was the vogue of the moment .
`` your voice is delightful '' , he approved with a warm smile .
there have been cooing doves , chattering magpies , thieving jackdaws , a proud peacock , a silly goose , and a harpy eagle -- whom i was silly enough to mate with and who is now busy tearing at my vitals '' .
he regaled claire with an account of the mock mass performed by the cassocked bloods , which he had had at firsthand from old bud dodington , one of the leaders of the so-called `` order '' .
naked girls danced in the chancel of the abbey , the youngest and seemingly the most innocent being chosen to read a sermon filled with veiled depravities .
alas , all that belonged to the age of `` devil dashwood '' and `` wicked wilkes '' , abbot and beadsman of the order ! !
they passed close by the turn to bishopsgate .
charming and peaceful -- but what were charm and peace compared to high adventure ? ?
how many women had longed for the privilege that was hers .
to be passive , to be girlishly shy was palpably absurd .
and while her adonis did not suffer from inexperience , satiety might well be an equal handicap .
mystery -- that was the thing .
with his club foot he might well be grateful .
the place was evidently a familiar haunt and claire wondered what other illicit loves had been celebrated in the comfortable rooms to which they were shown .
`` what about the bedroom '' ? ?
`` seems to me last time i was here the grate bellowed out smoke as it might have been preparing us for hell '' .
so , not only had he been here before , but it seemed he might well come again .
a cold supper was ordered and a bottle of port .
as they waited for supper they sat by the fire , glasses in hand , while byron philosophized as much for his own entertainment as hers .
`` the great greek tragedies are concerned with man against fate , not man against man for the prize of a woman's body .
`` the gods seemed to think sex pretty important '' , she rebutted .
that would be minerva , i suppose .
byron laughed .
`` tell me about minerva , how she behaved , what she did to please you '' .
i don't ask you who 'tis you're being unfaithful to , husband or lover .
for a moment she thought of answering with the truth but she knew there were men who shied away from virginity , who demanded some degree of education in body as well as mind .
what matter the others so long as i have my place in history '' .
no man ever had a better opinion of himself and indeed , with one so favored , flattery could hardly seem overdone .
the light supper over , claire went to him and , slipping an arm about his shoulder , sat on his knee .
her lips , moist and parted , spoke his name .
his hand went to her shoulder and pushed aside the knotted scarf that surmounted the striped poplin gown ; ;
the bodice beneath was buttoned and , withdrawing his lips from hers , he set her upright on his knee and started to undo it , unhurriedly as if she were a child .
she sprang up and went swiftly to the bedroom .
he drank slowly with due appreciation .
he rose and went to the bedroom .
when claire returned to bishopsgate she longed to tell them she had become byron's mistress .
as he declaimed the sonorous measures , it was as much as claire could do to restrain herself from bursting out with her dramatic tidings .
`` if he would only leave the east '' , said mary .
`` the hero of his next poem is napoleon bonaparte '' , said claire , with slightly overdone carelessness .
demanded mary .
`` i mustn't tell , i mustn't tell '' , she repeated to herself .
chapter 9
william , he was called , in honor of the man who was at once shelley's pensioner and his most bitter detractor .
`` fanny and mrs. godwin will probably be glad to hear that mary has safely recovered from a very favorable confinement , and that her child is well '' .
alastor was published only to be savagely attacked , contemptuously ignored .
neither acknowledged the gift .
she understood completely .
`` you have made the labor worth while '' , he said to her , smiling .
`` a public of one '' , mary echoed reprovingly .
there will be thousands who will thrill to the loveliness of alastor .
what about that dear , clever mr. thynne ? ?
`` poor mr. thynne , he always has to be trotted out for my encouragement '' .
not everyone is bewitched by byron's caliphs and harem beauties '' .
she was resentful of his easy success as compared with shelley's failure .
the lordly poet was at low-water mark .
on all sides doors were being slammed in his face .
now , under the impact of his wife's disclosures , he was brought suddenly to the realization that there was a limit to tolerance , however brilliant , however far-famed the offender might be .
for the moment there was no woman in his life , and it was this vacuum that had given claire her opportunity .
byron , since the separation from his wife had been living in a smallish house in piccadilly terrace .
beckworth handed the pass to the colonel .
despite his yearning , the colonel would not go down to see the men come through the lines .
-- beckworth .
-- fetch me the copies of everything b and c companies have requisitioned in the last six months .
-- you heard me .
it's got to stop .
this is no damned holiday , beckworth .
-- yes , sir .
below he could see the bright torches lighting the riverbank .
the colonel crouched tensely on one of the folding chairs , methodically tearing at his thumbnail .
it stood some fifty paces from the edge of the bank .
a crude ladder ran down to a wooden floor .
the place smelled strongly of rank , fertile earth , rotting wood and urine .
at least the union officer had been decent enough to provide a candle .
in the corner was the soldier with the white flag .
watson hardly looked at him .
someone had hauled him over the side , and he had remained silent while they crossed .
the men in the boats had started yelling happily at first sight of the officer , two of them calling him billy .
watson had presented his pouch and been led to the bombproof .
watson had given his name and asked for a safe-conduct pass .
watson had nodded absently and muttered that he would check the lists himself later .
the men he would take back across the river stood there , but he turned away from them .
he had hoped to be alone in the bombproof , but the soldier had followed him .
perhaps it would be better to speak to him , since silence could not exorcise his form .
-- we won't be too long .
the soldier answered in a curious , muffled voice , his lips barely moving .
-- yes , sir .
it was easier to think now , watson decided .
he paced slowly , stooping , staring at the damp , slippery floor .
but he groped blindly .
he stopped pacing , leaned against the dank , timbered wall and let his mind drift .
what in the name of god was he doing , crouched in a timbered pit on the wrong bank of the river ? ?
he grew annoyed and at the same time surprised at that emotion .
hillman had written it all out , hadn't he ? ?
what did he hope to accomplish here ? ?
prompted by a guilty urge , he had disobeyed the order of a man he respected .
to tell john something he would find out for himself .
watson snorted and then laughed aloud .
the soldier's voice was muffled again , stricken with chagrin .
-- 'scuse me , sir .
to his left , the two skiffs dented their sharp bows into the soft bank .
a soldier held the end of a frayed rope .
watson stared at them curiously .
behind them shambled a long column of weak , tattered men .
they moved toward the skiffs with shocking eagerness , elbowing and shoving .
they crept down the muddy slope toward the waiting boats .
the crawling men tried to rise and fell again .
watson watched two of them flounder into the shallow water and listened to their voices beg shrilly .
the third crawling man forced himself erect .
he paced forward unsteadily , leaning too far back , his head tilted oddly .
he appeared to be peering haughtily down his nose at the crowded and unclean vessel that would carry him to freedom .
watson looked for the fourth man .
he crept in an incertain manner , patting the ground before him .
the figure on the earth halted , seemingly bewildered .
then he began to crawl again .
he felt a spectator interest .
if only there was a clock for him to crawl against .
say three minutes to make it sporting .
the figure halted , and watson gasped .
he turned slowly and began to crawl back up the bank toward the rampart .
the guards came to life with astonishing menace .
watson gesticulated wildly .
-- let me help him , for the love of god ! !
watson pounded to the crawling man and stopped , panting heavily .
beneath his clutch , a flat strip of muscle surged on the bone .
watson stared into a cadaverous face .
light sticks of fingers , the tips gummy with dark earth , patted at watson's throat .
-- henry said that he'd take my arm and get me right there .
-- no .
is it far ? ?
another body length or all the rest of his nighted life ? ?
-- you talk deep .
it raises the voice , bein in camp .
-- yes .
can you walk ? ?
i can walk real good .
the man leaned his frail body against watson's shoulder .
watson paused for breath .
his sweet whisper came after great effort .
i wish you was henry .
-- hush .
watson supported the man to the edge of the bank and passed the frail figure over the bow of the nearest skiff .
watson turned away , sickened for the first time in many months .
-- henry ? ?
-- make him lie down ! !
he had not meant to shout .
the men mewed and scratched , begging to be taken away .
-- goddamn you ! !
intelligence jabbed at him accusingly .
he had not felt that during the afternoon .
all his emotions had been inward , self-conscious .
yes .
he was sure of it .
what a fool he had been to think of his brother ! !
what did it matter ? ?
already his cool body lay in the ground .
what had he thought of , to go to john , grovel and beg understanding ? ?
men were slaughtered every day , tumbled into eternity like so many torn parcels flung down a portable chute .
what right had john to any special consideration ? ?
to hell with john .
john would curse .
watson spat on the ground .
he had stupidly thought himself compelled to ease his brother's pain .
i would not want to be one of those writers who begin each morning by exclaiming , `` o gogol , o chekhov , o thackeray and dickens , what would you have made of a bomb shelter ornamented with four plaster-of-paris ducks , a birdbath , and three composition gnomes with long beards and red mobcaps '' ? ?
but the shelter is as much a part of my landscape as the beech and horse-chestnut trees that grow on the ridge .
it was built by the pasterns , and stands on the acre of ground that adjoins our property .
it would have been like her .
sitting on her terrace , sitting in her parlor , sitting anywhere , she ground an axe of self-esteem .
show her the new swimming pool and she would say , slapping her ankle , `` i suppose this must be where you breed your gigantic mosquitoes '' .
these trumps were more touching than they were anything else , and seemed to imply that the nights were long , her children ungrateful , and her marriage bewilderingly threadbare .
she usually wore weeds , and a stranger watching her board a train might have guessed that mr. pastern was dead , but mr. pastern was far from dead .
bomb berlin ! !
it all began on an autumn afternoon -- and who , after all these centuries , can describe the fineness of an autumn day ? ?
the clear and searching sweep of sun on the lawns was like a climax of the year's lights .
the boundless blue air was stretched over the zenith like the skin of a drum .
it was the day to canvass for infectious hepatitis .
it was her work to go among her neighbors and collect their checks .
charity as she knew it was complex and reciprocal , and almost every roof she saw signified charity .
mrs. ten eyke did mental health .
mrs. horowitz was in charge of diseases of the nose and throat .
mrs. hewlitt led the birthcontrol league , mrs. ryerson was arthritis , and way in the distance could be seen the slate roof of ethel littleton's house , a roof that signified gout .
it was her destiny ; ;
her mother had done it before her , and even her old grandmother , who had collected money for smallpox and unwed mothers .
she experienced none of the suspense of some poor stranger selling encyclopedias .
the contributions were ahead of what she had got the previous year , and while the money , of course , was not hers , it excited her to stuff her kit with big checks .
she stayed too late , and when she left , it was dark and time to go home and cook supper for her husband .
`` i did everybody on my list but the blevins and the flannagans .
`` but i don't know the flannagans '' , charlie pastern said .
he was tired , he had his business worries , and the sight of his wife arranging pork chops in the broiler only seemed like an extension of a boring day .
but the blevins were away ; ;
turning in at the flannagans' driveway , he tried to remember if he had ever met them .
there was a glass pane in the front door , and through this he could see into a hallway where a plump woman with red hair was arranging flowers .
she took a good look at herself in the mirror before she turned and , walking with very small steps , started toward the door .
the girlish voice was nearly a whisper .
her hair was dyed , and her bloom was fading , and she must have been crowding forty , but she seemed to be one of those women who cling to the manners and graces of a pretty child of eight .
`` and i am not sure that i have any cash -- any money , that is -- but if you will wait just a minute i will write you out a check if i can find my checkbook .
a fire had just been lighted , he saw , and things had been set out for drinks , and , like any stray , his response to these comforts was instantaneous .
travelling home on a late train ? ?
taking a shower ? ?
`` i am terribly sorry to keep you waiting '' , she said , `` but won't you make yourself a little drink while you wait ? ?
`` what train does mr. flannagan come out on '' ? ?
her voice dropped .
''
`` if you will promise to make it weak '' .
the only way to find things is to relax '' .
she described herself and her circumstances unhesitatingly .
he travelled all over the world .
planes made her feel faint , and in tokyo , where she had gone that summer , she had been given raw fish for breakfast and so she had come straight home .
she would rather live in danger than die of loneliness and boredom .
she had made no friends .
`` i've seen you walking your dogs on sunday and driving by in the convertible .
the thought of this lonely woman sitting at her window touched him , although he was even more touched by her plumpness .
it serves merely as an excess cushion for the rest of the carcass .
the remarks she made about the sufferings of a lonely woman seemed so broad at first that he didn't know what to make of them , but after the sixth drink he put his arm around her and suggested that they go upstairs and look for her checkbook there .
her voice shook with feeling , and he thought it lovely .
`` i've never done this before '' , they always said , shaking their dresses down over their white shoulders .
`` i've never done this before '' , they always said , pouring another whiskey .
on ships at sea , on railroad trains , in summer hotels with mountain views , they always said , `` i've never done this before '' .
mrs. pastern asked sadly , when he came in .
`` i had a drink with the flannagans '' .
`` he came home unexpectedly '' .
`` bomb them '' ! !
`` throw a little nuclear hardware at them ! !
but in bed he had trouble sleeping .
he loved them .
then he played nine imaginary holes of golf , choosing his handicap , his irons , his stance , his opponents , and his weather in detail , but the green of the links seemed faded in the light of his business worries .
his worries harried him up out of bed , and he lighted a cigarette and went to the window .
during the summer he had tried to repair some of his losses at the track , and the bare trees reminded him that his pari-mutuel tickets would still be lying , like leaves , in the gutters near belmont and saratoga .
children walking home from school would scuff through what seemed to be his foliage .
there are , he thought , so few true means of forgetfulness in this life that why should he shun the medicine even when the medicine seemed , as it did , a little crude ? ?
that aside from due notification of certain major events in their lives ( two marriages , two births , one divorce ) , christmas and easter cards of the traditional sort had been the only thin link she had with them through the widowed years .
but there was a look about her mouth as though she were tasting lemons .
she turned and walked stiffly into the parlor to the dainty-legged escritoire , warped and cracked now from fifty years in an atmosphere of sea spray .
once her trembling hand , with the pen grasped tight in it , was pressed against the paper the words came sharply , smoothly , as authoritatively as they would dropping from her own lips .
`` please come down as soon as you conveniently can '' , the upright letters stalked from the broad-nibbed pen , `` i have an important matter to discuss with you '' .
i should be obliged if you could make other arrangements for your daughters .
to mark : `` please give my regards to myra '' .
then she went back to the wicker chair and resolutely adjusted her eyes to the glare on the water .
she looked at the girl speculatively from eyes which had paled with the years ; ;
angelina placed the tray on the table and with a flick of dark wrist drew off the cloth .
`` that will be so nice for you , mrs. packard '' , she said .
`` um '' , said the old lady , and brought her eyes down to the tray .
she glinted suspiciously at the dish before her : `` blowfish .
angelina stepped back , her eyes roaming the tray for omissions .
`` yes '' , she said , `` i remember that they came here every summer .
abel '' ? ?
for an instant the old aunt felt something indefinable flash through her smile .
then angelina turned and with an easy grace walked toward the kitchen .
for a moment she held her face to the empty doorway ; ;
there's no greater catastrophe in the universe , she reflected dourly , impaling tender green beans on the silver fork , than the dwindling away of a family .
when the fate of the individual is visited on the group , then ( the warm sweet butter dripped from her raised trembling fork and she pushed her head forward belligerently ) , ah , then the true bitterness of existence could be tasted .
she was the last living of the older generation .
she swung her eyes up to the blue of the window , her jaws gently mashing the bitter beans .
she ate .
here , too , she talked low , quirking her head at one or another of the places , most often at izaak's armchair which faced her across the long table .
she thought again of her children , those two who had died young , before the later science which might have saved them could attach even a label to their separate malignancies .
it could have been anyone's infant , for it had not survived the bassinet .
each successive movement in his growing was recorded on the unreeling film inside her .
in the cruel clearness of her memory the boy remained unchanged , quick with the delight of laughter , and the pain with which she recalled that short destroyed childhood was still unendurable to her .
the brothers drove down together in mark's small red sports car , mark at the wheel .
abel sat and regarded the farm country which , spreading out from both sides of the road , rolled greenly up to where the silent white houses and long barns and silos nested into the tilled fields .
and it presented itself to him as it would to any stranger , impervious , complete in itself .
that is what childhood is , he told himself .
in the stiff neutral lines of the telephone poles he saw the no-nonsense pen strokes of aunt jessica's letter .
the boyhood summers preceding their uncle's funeral might never have been .
the small car flew on relentlessly .
abel moved and adjusted his long legs .
not until the words had been spoken did abel suddenly see the old house and the insistent sea , and feel his contrition blotted out in one shameful moment of covetousness .
now abel turned his head to look at his brother .
his sandy hair was already beginning to thin and recede at the sides , and abel looked quickly away .
the vacation traffic was becoming heavier as they approached the sea .
`` she's probably getting old -- crotchety , i mean -- and we figured uh-uh , better not .
but myra wouldn't budge without an express invitation .
he gave abel a quick glance and moved closer to the wheel , hugging it to him , and abel caught this briefest of allusions to guilt .
abel ignored the half-expressed bid for confirmation .
it was barely possible that his brother was right .
the air took on a special strength now that they'd left the fecund warmth of the farmland behind .
he turned from the flying trees to look ahead and saw with an inward boy's eye again the great fieldstone house which , built on one of the many acres of ancestral land bordering the west harbor , had been izaak's bride-gift to his cousin-wife as the last century ended .
`` remember the starbird ? ?
`` the starbird , '' abel said .
the two of them had developed into a remarkable sailing team all of this happening in a time of their lives when their youth and their brotherhood knitted them together as no other time or circumstance could .
he saw the starbird as she lay , her slender mast up and gently turning , its point describing constant languid circles against a cumulus sky .
the starbird had been long at the bottom of the bay .
meeting it without preparation as they did , robbed of anticipation , a common disappointment seized them .
mark stopped the car and switched off the lights and they sat looking at the water , which , there being no moon out , at first could be distinguished from the sky only by an absence of stars .
i decided i hated the pedersen kid too , dying in our kitchen while i was away where i couldn't watch , dying just to entertain hans and making me go up snapping steps and down a drafty hall , pa lumped under the covers at the end like dung covered with snow , snoring and whistling .
he'd not care about getting waked so he could give up some of his whisky to a slit of a kid and maybe lose one of his hiding places in the bargain .
i didn't hurry though it was cold and the pedersen kid was in the kitchen .
i pushed at his shoulder , calling his name .
the covers slid down his skinny neck so i saw his head , fuzzed like a dandelion gone to seed , but his face was turned to the wall -- there was the pale shadow of his nose on the plaster -- and i thought , well you don't look much like a pig-drunk bully now .
he was a cagey sonofabitch .
`` pap-pap-pap-hey '' , i said .
i knew better .
oh he was smart .
i knew better but i was thinking of the pedersen kid mother-naked in all that dough .
pa was on his side , looking at me , his eyes winking , the hand that had hit me a fist in the pillow .
i didn't say anything , trying to get my throat clear , but i watched him .
it was better , though , he'd hit me .
`` get the hell out of here '' .
he told me to wake you '' .
get out of here '' .
`` get the hell out '' .
he was tasting his mouth .
hans is rubbing him with snow .
`` pedersen '' ? ?
it's the pedersen kid .
`` nothing to steal from the crib '' .
he was just lying there .
that's where he was when hans found him '' .
`` i ain't hid nothing in the crib '' .
the pedersen kid .
`` i goddamn well understand '' .
`` i goddamn well understand .
that cock .
what did he come for , hey ? ?
and don't come back .
you're a fool .
pedersen .
don't come back .
out '' .
he had long black hairs on his wrist .
`` big hans made me come .
`` a fat hell on big hans .
fat , hey ? ?
out .
he was about to get up so i got out , slamming the door .
then he threw things .
pa'd been shit-sick in that pot .
he didn't even bother to wipe himself off and he chopped part of pa's door down before he stopped .
that pot put pa in an awful good humor whenever he thought of it .
i heard pa cursing all the way downstairs .
he was rubbing snow on the kid's legs and feet .
`` ain't he going to wake up '' ? ?
`` he was awake when i left '' .
did you get the whisky '' ? ?
`` don't be smart .
`` yeah '' .
`` he said a fat hell on big hans '' .
what's he going to do '' ? ?
`` you'd best get that whisky '' .
take the axe .
`` listen to me , jorge , i've had enough to your sassing .
if i don't get some whisky down him he might die .
do you ? ?
`` pa don't care about the kid '' .
`` well he don't .
he don't care , and i don't care to have his shit flung on me .
all he cares about is his whisky and that dry crack in his face .
he don't care about nothing else at all .
not pedersen's kid neither .
not the kid neither '' .
i'd wound big hans up tight .
ma never went near the old man when he was sleeping it off .
not for years .
it should have been nearly as easy for her to remember that as it was for big hans to remember going after the axe while he was still spattered with pa's yellow sick insides .
`` yes , hans , if they're needed '' , ma said .
if we had , then one of us would have had to go instead .
`` i'll get more snow '' , i said .
i don't know where ma went .
she had surprised hans like she had surprised me when she said she'd go , and then she surprised him again when she came back so quick like she must have , because when i came in with the snow she was there with a bottle with three white feathers on its label and hans was holding it angrily by the throat .
he was awful angry because he'd thought ma was going to do something big , something heroic even , especially for her i know him i know him we felt the same sometimes while ma wasn't thinking about that at all , not anything like that .
it wasn't like getting cheated at the fair .
now hans had given ma something of his -- we both had when we thought she was going straight to pa -- something valuable ; ;
hans cut the foil off finally and unscrewed the cap .
ma had found one of pa's hiding places .
pa had a knack for hiding .
but now ma .
pa was sure to find out .
but he'd find out about this one because we were using it .
if he found out ma found it -- that'd be bad .
it was all the pride he had .
but he didn't figure ma for much .
hans poured some in a tumbler .
`` no '' .
that's what he needs , something warm to his skin , don't he '' ? ?
heat's bad for frostbite .
he's got to thaw slow .
colors on the towels had run .
`` what are we going to do with these '' ? ?
`` here , help me prop him up .
i didn't want to touch him and i hoped ma would do it but she kept looking at the kid's clothes piled on the floor and the pool of water by them and didn't make any move to .
`` all right '' .
`` o.k. , i'm lifting '' .
his head flopped back .
the skin on his neck was tight .
`` hold his head up .
`` his mouth is open '' .
he'll choke '' .
`` hold his head up '' .
`` don't hold him like that .
`` well jesus '' .
i put my arm carefully around him .
`` now he'll choke for sure '' .
just hold him like i told you '' .
i had my arm behind his back .
there was never a doubt any more how his structures would be received ; ;
he could no longer build anything , whether a private residence in his pennsylvania county or a church in brazil , without it being obvious that he had done it , and while here and there he was taken to task for again developing the same airy technique , they were such fanciful and sometimes even playful buildings that the public felt assured by its sense of recognition after a time , a quality of authentic uniqueness about them , which , once established by an artist as his private vision , is no longer disputable as to its other values .
he had lived for almost thirty years in this same stone farmhouse with the same wife , a remarkably childish thing in itself ; ;
this was an enormously long building whose walls were made of rocks , some of them brought home from every continent during his six years as an oil geologist .
a pile of wire cages for mice from his time as a geneticist and a microscope lying on its side on the window sill , vertical steel columns wired for support to the open ceiling beams with spidery steel cantilevers jutting out into the air , masonry constructions on the floor from the time he was inventing his disastrous fireplace whose smoke would pass through a whole house , visible all the way up through wire gratings on each floor .
everywhere else his ideas lay or hung in visible form : his models , drawings , ten-foot canvases in monochromes from his painting days , and underfoot a windfall of broken-backed books that looked as though their insides had been ransacked by a maniac .
he worked standing , with his left hand in his pocket as though he were merely stopping for a moment , sketching with the surprised stare of one who was watching another person's hand .
it all seemed -- if one could have peeked in at him through one of his windows -- as though this broken-nosed man with the muscular arms and wrestler's neck was merely the caretaker trying his hand at the boss's work .
but he was not bored at all ; ;
there are , after all , fortunate souls who hear everything , but only know how to listen to what is good for them , and stowey was , as things go , a fortunate man .
he would wear this same costume in florida , despite his wife cleota's reminders over the past five days that he must take some cool clothes with him .
so they parted when she was in an impatient humor .
finding the key under his shoe , he started the engine , and while it warmed up he turned to her standing there in the dripping fog , and said , `` defrost the refrigerator '' .
he kept on laughing until she started laughing with him .
an explosive laugh which always carried everything before it .
whenever he laughed it was all he was doing .
she was forty-nine at this time , a lanky woman of breeding with an austere , narrow face which had the distinction of a steeple or some architecture that had been designed long ago for a stubborn sort of prayer .
there was an air of blindness in her gray eyes , the startled-horse look that ultimately comes to some women who are born at the end of an ancestral line long since divorced from money-making and which , besides , has kept its estate intact .
but just when she seemed to have sunk into some depravity of peasanthood she would disappear and come down bathed , brushed , and taking breaths of air , and even with her broken nails her hands would come to rest on a table or a leaf with a thoughtless delicacy , a grace of history , so to speak , and for an instant one saw how ferociously proud she was and adamant on certain questions of personal value .
`` now drive carefully , for god's sake '' ! !
but he did not notice , and was already backing the car down to the road , saying `` toot-toot '' ! !
she stood clutching her shawl around her shoulders until he had swung the car onto the road .
she had begun to turn back toward the house , but his look caught her and she stood still , waiting there for what his expression indicated would be a serious word of farewell .
now she kept herself protectively ready to laugh again and sure enough he pointed at her with his index finger and said `` toot '' ! !
she walked back to the house and entered , feeling herself returning , sensing some kind of opportunity in the empty building .
she enjoyed great parties when she would sit up talking and dancing and drinking all night , but it always seemed to her that being alone , especially alone in her house , was the realest part of life .
she could dust the plants , then break off suddenly and pick up an old novel and read from the middle on ; ;
and finally , the best part of all , simply sit at the plank table in the kitchen with a bottle of wine and the newspapers , reading the ads as well as the news , registering nothing on her mind but letting her soul suspend itself above all wishing and desire .
she fell asleep leaning on her hand , hearing the house creaking as though it were a living a private life of its own these two hundred years , hearing the birds rustling in their cages and the occasional whirring of wings as one of them landed on the table and walked across the newspaper to perch in the crook of her arm .
then she fell asleep again as soddenly as a person with fever , and when she awoke it was dark outside and the clarity was back in her eyes .
she went into the living room and turned on three lamps , then back into the kitchen where she turned on the ceiling light and the switch that lit the floods on the barn , illuminating the driveway .
they were both so young , after all , so unready for any final parting .
but yes , nineteen plus thirty was forty-nine , and she was forty-nine and she had been married at nineteen .
but they all said , `` no , your time will come .
there was no room for company in the tiny weaning house ( where the albright boys always took their brides , till they could get a house and a farm of their own ) .
and there was still not anything that linda kay could do .
without saying so , she was really grateful ; ;
she had made curtains for all the windows of her little house , and she had kept it spotless and neat , shabby as it was , and cooked good meals for bobby joe .
people died , she would have said , in hospitals , or in cars on the highway at night .
when they first married he had been working in the fields all day , and she would get in the car and drive to wherever he was working , to take him a fresh hot meal .
not that she complained , or had any cause to .
there was no reason for her to ask what they did .
she lay still on the bed , her head hardly denting the pillow ; ;
they stopped expecting her to die the next minute , but only in the next day or two .
but they might as well unpack their suitcases , for she might linger on .
when linda kay had put up her breakfast dishes and mopped her linoleum rugs , she would go to the big house .
bobby joe and the boys would come by , say `` how's granny '' ? ?
the older men would be there at noon , and maybe rest for a time before they took their guns off to the creek or drove down the road towards town .
the women , keeping their voices low as they worked around the house or sat in the living room , sounded like chickens shut up in a coop for the night .
off and on , all day , someone would be wiping at the powdery gray dust that settled over everything .
so that the rest of the house stayed open , though there was a question as to whether it was hotter or cooler that way .
they had cleaned up an old ice box and begun to buy fifty-pound blocks of ice in town , as the electric refrigerator came nowhere near providing enough ice for the crowds who ate and drank there .
it was a cadillac , black grayed with the dust of the road , its windows closed tight so you knew that the people who climbed out of it would be cool and unwrinkled .
there was much embracing , much exclaiming .
cousin john '' ! !
`` cousin howard '' ! !
`` about the same , john , about the same '' .
`` we were on our vacation in canada '' , howard explained , in a muffled voice that must have been used to booming , `` and the news didn't catch up with us till we were nearly home .
there was the suggestion of ice water , and -- in spite of the protest `` we're not really thirsty '' -- linda kay , to escape the stuffy air and the smothering soft voices , hurried to the kitchen .
carrying it to the living room , she imagined the picture she made : tall and roundly slim , a bit sophisticated in her yellow sheath , with a graceful swingy walk that she had learned as a twirler with the school band .
howard ( the thick middle-aged man ) was looking at her .
`` and who is this '' ? ?
`` oh that's linda kay '' , mama albright said fondly .
`` he's a right smart younger than the rest '' ? ?
`` he's ten years younger than ernest .
thought for the longest he was a tumor '' .
then , hearing the muffled boom of howard's laughter , blushed redder .
she asked bobby joe that night .
`` oh he's a second cousin or something .
`` how old is he '' ? ?
thirty-five , i guess .
if he bothers you , don't pay him any mind .
bobby joe was thinking about something else .
he was talking about antelope again when they woke up .
there never was a season before , but now they want to thin 'em out on account of the drouth '' .
linda kay asked .
`` howard '' .
when he was a kid i wasn't around '' .
almost immediately howard and his daughter debora drove up in the cadillac .
there was really no reason to refuse , and linda kay had never ridden in a cadillac .
finally he said , `` tell me about yourself '' , and linda kay told him , because she thought herself that she had had an interesting life .
in her sophomore year she had started going steady with bobby joe , who was a football player , future homemakers sweetheart , and president of future farmers .
bobby joe would be a senior this year , and he planned to graduate .
howard sighed .
`` i'd give anything if i could have found a girl like you '' .
of course he couldn't say much , really , because of debora , but linda kay could imagine what kind of woman his wife had been and what a raw deal he had got .
she was going to tell bobby joe about how mistaken she had been , but he brought one of the cousins home for supper , and all they did was talk about antelope .
`` cook a whole antelope '' ? ?
`` why , i couldn't even cook a piece of antelope steak ; ;
`` oh , you could .
linda kay told him he couldn't do anything like that with his grandma dying , and he said well they had to eat , didn't they , they weren't all dying .
but they were going up to the big house after supper , and she had to put on a clean dress and fix her hair a little .
it was full-of-the-moon ( or a little past ) , and nearly light as day .
once in a while they said what a shame it was , with granny dying , but they all agreed she wouldn't have wanted it any other way .
bobby joe and two or three of the other boys declared they had never been possum-hunting , and uncle bill farnworth ( from mama albright's side of the family ) said he would just get up from there and take them , right then .
there were not many chairs , so that some preferred to sit on the edge of the porch , resting their feet on the ground , and others liked to sit where they could lean back against the wall .
`` you'll be a darn sight more comfortable there , howard '' , ernest said , laughing , and they all laughed .
bobby joe had been sitting close to her , touching her actually , and holding her hand from time to time , but it seemed at once that howard sat much closer .
but she had never been so aware of anyone's flesh before .
he had become the center of the company , such stories he had to tell .
he had helped fight an oil-well fire that raged six days and nights .
alex asked .
`` what i want you to do is to go to the market with me early tomorrow morning and help smuggle the hen back into the hotel '' .
the doctor opened the smallest of his cases , an unimposing straw bag , and exposed the contents for alex's inspection .
to alex they were merely six not unusual hens' eggs .
in an instant the doctor was stalking across the room with an antique ledger in his hands , thoroughly eared and big as a table top .
`` this is my hen ledger '' , he informed him in an absorbed way .
that first entry there is the vermont flumenophobe , the earliest and one of the most successful of my eighty-three varieties -- great big scapulars and hardly any primaries at all .
the ledger was full of most precise information : date of laying , length of incubation period , number of chick reaching the first week , second week , fifth week , weight of hen , size of rooster's wattles and so on , all scrawled out in a hand that looked more chinese than english , the most jagged and sprawling alex had ever seen .
alex's instruction was rapid , for the doctor had to go off to the rue ecole de medecine to hear more speeches with only time for one sip of wine to sustain him through them all .
a knocking at alex's door roused him at six o'clock the following morning .
the doctor stood about , waiting for alex to dress , with a show of impatience , and soon they were moving , as quietly as could be , through the still-dark hallways , past the bedroom of the patronne , and so into the street .
he stroked the hens and they responded with delighted clucks , he gobbled with the turkeys and they at once were all attention , he quacked with the ducks , and cackled with a pair of exceedingly flattered geese .
it was a fine broody hen , white , with a maternal eye and a striking abundance of feathers in the under region of the abdomen .
all search was ended ; ;
the purchase was effected and they made their way towards the hotel again , the hen , with whom some sort of communication had been set up , nestling in the doctor's arms .
and hopes that the chambermaid and patronne would still be abed began to rise in alex's well exercised breast .
alex entered first and was followed by the doctor who , for all his care , manifested a perceptible bulge on his left side where the hen was cradled .
it was then that they heard the tread of one descending and , in some perturbation glancing up , saw the patronne coming towards them as they gained the landing .
alex explained that they had been out for a stroll before breakfast while the doctor edged around behind him , attempting to hide the protuberance at his left side behind alex's arm and back .
their hostess enquired .
the doctor , he noticed , was attempting a transverse movement towards the stairs , but before the movement could be completed a distinct and audible cluck ruffled the air in the hollow of the stair-well .
`` comment '' ? ?
with that he hurried up the stairs , followed by her suspicious gaze .
there was no reference to the incident on the stairs , his powers being absorbed by this more immediate business .
one part of her audience was totally engaged , the connoisseur witnessing a peculiarly fine performance of some ancient classic , the other part , the guest of the connoisseur , attentive as one who must take an intelligent interest in that which he does not fully understand .
the audience attended .
startled , he jumped up to pull hen and case out of view , and alex went to the door .
it was giselle , the fille de chambre , come to clean the room , and while she stood before him with ears pricked up and regard all curiosity , explaining her errand , alex could see from the corner of his eye the doctor doing all he could to calm the displeased bird .
`` who was that , young feller '' ? ?
`` that was the fille de chambre , the one you thought couldn't get the eggs out .
anyhow she's coming back in five minutes to do the room '' .
he rose to put his greatcoat on and addressed alex in a muted voice .
`` right in my pocket '' .
now you go outside and beckon me when it's safe '' .
they climbed the stairs which creaked , very loudly to their sensitive ears , and reached the next floor .
they passed behind him and got to alex's room unnoticed .
at the door alex managed to persuade the increasingly astonished fille de chambre to return in ten minutes .
they waited three minutes and then crept out on tip-toe ; ;
a bustle of sheets being smoothed and pillows being arranged indicated the fille de chambre's presence inside ; ;
the doctor shot down to the lavatory and turned the doorknob , but to no effect : the lavatory was occupied .
alex suppressed those expressions of relief which offered to prevail in his face and escape from his throat ; ;
the events of the last quarter of an hour , mysterious to any bird accustomed only to the predictable life of coop and barnyard , had overcome the doctor's hen and she gave out a series of cackly wails , perhaps mourning her nest , but briefly enjoyed .
alex nodded to the maid as though nothing unusual were taking place and entered the doctor's room .
without comment he opened the closet and from its shelves constructed a highboard around the egg case which he had placed on the floor inside .
the two men sat for some time , savoring the pleasure of escape from peril and the relief such escape brings , before they got up and left the hotel , the doctor to go to the conference house and alex to go to the main post office .
at the time alex arrived he was engaged in some sort of intimate communication with the hen , who had settled herself on the nest most peacefully after the occurrences of the morning .
`` well '' , he began , `` it seems like some people in paris want to hear more from me than those fellers over at the conference house do .
seems like she's willing , but the male just flops around all day like the bashful boy who took jeannie may behind the barn and then didn't know what to do , and the people at the zoo haven't got any vulture chicks to show for their trouble .
there were times it wasn't right to make a person happy , like the times she came in the kitchen and asked know we don't keep peanut `` butter for a peanut butter sandwich .
`` why , winston '' , she'd cry , `` i just now saw you eating it out of the jar '' ! !
in the kitchen , leona , his little young wife , was reading the morning paper .
`` here '' , winston said gently , `` what's these dishes doing not washed '' ? ?
`` leave me alone '' , leona said .
she looked at him impudently over the corner of the paper .
leona '' ! !
bending , he touched her knee .
she twitched her leg away .
she had an alley cat's manners .
then he spread out the last list on the counter .
fine hand .
sighing , leona dropped the paper and stood up .
winston watched her fumbling to untie her apron .
carefully , he undid the bow .
she turned and put her arms around his neck .
`` now listen to that '' .
`` i thought you was sick to death of this big house .
`` at least there is room here '' , she said .
`` i told you what miss ada's doctor said '' .
what you think i care about that ? ?
she sounded as though they already existed .
`` we've got plenty of time to think about that .
we've only been married four years , january '' .
she wailed .
`` how many times have i told you '' -- he began , and was almost glad when she cut him off -- `` too many times '' ! !
too many times was the truth of it , winston thought .
although it had seemed a good reason , to begin with : no couple could afford to have children .
he asked leona .
he doubted whether she heard him , over the running water .
she made him sad some days , and he was never sure why ; ;
she was too young , that was all ; ;
`` winston '' ! !
winston hurried through the swinging door .
he was standing in front of the mirror , tightening his tie .
`` i don't know what you think you've been doing about my clothes '' , he said .
there were a few blades of lint on the shoulder .
he gave mr. jack a real going-over ; ;
`` hey '' ! !
winston apologized and quickly set the hat right .
winston enjoyed seeing him start out ; ;
when he was going to town , nothing was good enough -- he had cursed at winston once for leaving a fleck of polish on his shoelace .
the velvet smoking jackets , pearl-gray , wine , and blue , which miss ada had bought him hung brushed and unworn in the closet .
`` look out for those movers '' ! !
a handsome , fine-looking man it made him proud to see .
he noticed a speck of dirt on the sill and swiped at it with his finger .
for the first time , he be sad about the move .
each brass handle and hinge shone for his reward , and he knew how to get at the dust in the china flowers and how to take down the long glass drops which hung from the chandelier .
ten years ago , he had come to the house to be interviewed .
miss ada had been out back , in a straw hat , planting flowers .
winston had been surprised at her for that .
she had had a dignity about her , even barefoot and almost too tan .
already the jonquils were blooming in a flock by the front gate , and the periwinkles were coming on , blue by the porch steps .
and the dogwood in early may , for miss ada's alfresco party ; ;
now the yard looked wet and bald , the trees bare under their buds , but in a while miss ada's flowers would bloom like a marching parade .
where would she go for her gardening now ? ?
sighing , he hurried to the living room .
still , he couldn't help thinking , we're all getting old , getting small ; ;
in the living room , miss ada was standing by the window with a sheaf of lists in her hand .
`` winston '' , she said , `` get the basket for the breakables '' .
he brought it in and put it down beside her .
she had on her easter suit , blue , with lavender binding .
it hung in all her day clothes , sweet and strong ; ;
frowning , miss ada studied the list .
the alabaster cockatoo '' .
neither of them trusted the movers .
she smiled at winston , and he saw the hateful hard glitter in her eyes .
`` at least you could leave it for the movers '' , miss ada said .
winston folded the tissue paper carefully .
every morning , i lay out his clothes on it '' .
and it was his main present ! !
winston laid it in the basket .
`` really , winston .
but she went on down the list .
those presents had been on his mind .
`` you know what she likes , winston '' , he had said wearily , one evening in november when winston was pulling off his overshoes .
`` she's been talking about a picture '' , winston had told him .
you mean picture of me '' ? ?
on christmas night , they had had a disagreement about it .
through the door , he had seen mr. jack walking around , waiting for miss ada .
winston had heard her shaking out the skirt of her new pink silk hostess gown .
she had asked .
`` is that a compliment '' ? ?
he had stood at a little distance , studying her , as though he would walk around next and look at the back of her head .
miss ada had giggled , and she went sweeping and rustling to the couch and sank down .
`` not a line , not a wrinkle .
`` look , an old man .
`` darling , i love that photograph .
`` i guess it's children make a woman old .
after a minute he went on , `` people must think the curse is on me , seeing you fresh as an apple and me old and gray '' .
`` no .
make the man put them in if he has to '' .
then miss ada had stood up , rustling and rustling , and gone upstairs .
i had no doubt that it was .
nothing in all the preceding years had had the power to bring me closer to a knowledge of profound sorrow than the breakup of camp , the packing away of my camp uniforms , the severing of ties with the six or ten people i had grown most to love in the world .
my parents' welcoming arms would seem woeful , inadequate , unwanted .
these letters became the center of my existence .
my memory has catalogued for easy reference and withdrawal the image of her pink , scented stationery and the unsloped , almost printed configurations of her neat , studious handwriting with which she invited me to recall our summer , so many sentences beginning with `` remember when ; ;
in my letters i took on a personality that differed from the self i knew in real life .
the letters took their source from a stream of my imagination in which i was transformed into a young man not unlike my bunkmate eliot sands -- he of the porch steps anecdotes -- who smoked cigarettes , performed the tango , wore fifty dollar suits , and sneaked off into the dark with girls to do unimaginable things with them .
the night after reading her letter about her surgeon uncle -- it must have been late in september -- i had a vision of myself returned in ragged uniform from the front , nearly dying , my head bandaged and blooded , and jessica bending over me , the power of her love bringing me back to life .
the weeks went by , and the longer our separation grew , the more unbounded and almost unbearable my fantasies became .
as it turned out , jessica took matters into her own hands .
i went and , mum and nervous , all but made a fool of myself .
i remember standing in a corner , watching jessica act the hostess , serving soft drinks to her guests .
it made her look sweet and schoolgirlish , i was excited to be with her , but i did not know how to express it .
it was late , we were playing kissing games , and jessica and i were called on to kiss in front of the others .
the kiss outraged our friends but it was done and meanwhile had released in me all the remote , exciting premonitions of lust , all the mysterious sensations that i had imagined a truly consummated kiss would convey to me .
lovingly , she accepted , and so great was my emotion that all i could think of saying was , `` you're amazing , you know '' ? ?
we would write to one another and make a definite plan .
among my school and neighborhood friends , during the next months , i bragged and swaggered and pompously described my impending date .
it would be the first time i had ever been completely alone with a girl i loved .
should i bring along a corsage or send one to her ? ?
should i accompany her to the door of her home , or should i ask to be invited in ? ?
all this was unknown to me , and yet i had dared to ask her out for the most important night of the year ! !
but the letter went on : she had cried , she had implored , she had been miserable at his refusal , and finally he had relented -- and now how happy she was , how expectant ! !
i forced confidence into myself .
in december i wrote her with authority that we would meet on the steps of the hotel astor , a rendezvous spot that i had learned was the most sophisticated .
i set the hour of our meeting for seven .
i wore a new double-breasted brown worsted suit with a faint herringbone design and wide lapels like a devil's ears .
hatless , in an overcoat of rough blue wool , i was given a proud farewell by my mother and father , and i set out into the strangely still streets of brooklyn .
times square , when i ascended to it with my fellow subway travellers ( all dressed as if for a huge wedding in a family of which we were all distant members ) , was nearly impassable , the sidewalks swarming with celebrants , with bundled up sailors and soldiers already hugging their girls and their rationed bottles of whiskey .
the night was cold but the crowd kept one warm .
cardboard noisemakers , substitutes for the unavailable tin models , were being hawked and bought at makeshift stands every few yards along broadway , and one's ears were continually serenaded by the horns' rasps and bleats .
his neighbors cheered him on .
how did one join them ? ?
was i supposed to buy a funny hat and a rattle for jessica ? ?
i looked over their faces and felt a twinge : they all looked so much more knowing than i .
i looked for jessica to materialize out of the clogging , curdling crowd and , as the time passed and i waited , a fiend came to life beside me and whispered in my ear : how was i planning to greet jessica ? ?
suppose the lines in front of the movie houses were too long and we couldn't get in ? ?
i felt for my wallet .
but when i saw that it was already ten past seven , i began to wonder if something had gone wrong .
suppose at this very moment her father was calling my house in an effort to cancel the plans ? ?
all about me there was a hectic interplay of meetings taking place , like abrupt , jerky scenes in old silent movies , joyous greetings and beginnings , huggings and kissings , enthusiastic forays into the festive night .
at 7:25 two hotel doormen came thumping down the steps , carrying a saw-horse to be set up as a barricade in front of the haberdashery store window next to the entranceway , and as i watched them in their gaudy red coats that nearly scraped the ground , their golden , fringed epaulets and spic , red-visored caps , i suddenly saw just over their shoulders jessica gracefully making her way through the crowd .
there were thirty-eight patients on the bus the morning i left for hanover , most of them disturbed and hallucinating .
i felt lonely and depressed as i stared out the bus window at chicago's grim , dirty west side .
i suddenly thought of mary jane brennan , the way her pretty eyes could flash with anger , her quiet competence , the gentleness and sweetness that lay just beneath the surface of her defenses .
i had told her enough about myself to offset somewhat the damaging stories that had appeared in local newspapers after my little adventure in marshall field & co. .
she knew also that i was unmarried and without a single known relative .
this had worried her .
`` you must have loved that girl very much , but you couldn't have meant it when you said that you wanted to kill her '' .
i asked .
nonsense ! !
don't tell me about drunks .
were you in love with that girl '' ? ?
she met my eyes , suddenly angry .
i'm interested in every patient i've helped take care of .
`` you what , mary jane '' ? ?
i don't blame that girl for breaking her engagement with you .
`` oh , yes '' , i said , feeling annoyed , `` she was very pretty .
`` why should i ? ?
we keep getting the same ones back again and again .
you've not seemed like them , but maybe you are .
it's not a joke to be sent to a place like this or to hanover .
`` why didn't you '' ? ?
`` chicago has some of the best '' --
`` that's what i mean about you , anderson '' , she said .
i'll tell you why i didn't go to college ; ;
my father's a policeman and makes less than seven thousand dollars a year .
nurses' training here doesn't cost anything .
i think it's a good deal .
`` do you have a boy friend '' ? ?
`` that's none of your business '' , she said , then changed the subject .
`` my father and mother died when i was two years old '' , i said .
aunt mary died when i was doing my military service .
something in my voice must have touched her deeply because her anger passed quickly , and she turned away to keep me from seeing her face .
`` i don't know what i'd do without my family .
`` tell me more about them '' .
listening , i felt cheated and lonely as only an orphan can .
`` your dad sounds like a good father and a good policeman .
`` my father is a sergeant of detectives and has been attached to homicide for five years .
i don't think he'd mind too much if he were sure you'd decided not to be a rumdum in the future '' .
how would you feel about it if i were to ask you for a date when i get through at hanover '' ? ?
what about your that girl you were going to kill '' ? ?
`` there are things about me that i can't tell you now , mary jane '' , i said , `` but if you'll go out to dinner with me when i get out of hanover , i'd like to tell you the whole story .
you will get to come home on long weekends from hanover , won't you '' ? ?
`` we'll go up to the edgewater beach hotel for dinner '' , i said .
they always have a good orchestra '' .
there hadn't been anything really personal in her interest in me .
it was just that she felt deeply about every patient on the ward and wanted to believe that they might benefit from their treatment there .
it seemed the most important thing in my life at this moment that she should know the real truth about me .
only two people in the state of illinois knew that i was entering hanover state hospital under an assumed name , or why .
but i had the proof , all documented in a legal agreement which i would show her the moment i was free to do so .
i wondered suddenly as i listened to the disconnected jabberings coming from the patient behind me , if i had not perhaps imagined it all .
a figment of carl anderson's imagination .
i had come to chicago from new york early in september with a dramatic production called ask tony .
no one , not even the producer , had any real hope of getting it back to broadway .
such optimism was completely unjustified .
ask tony was doomed from the moment kupcinet leveled on it in his sun-times column .
out of the entire cast i alone received good notices for my portrayal of a psychopathic killer .
we were paid off tuesday morning and given tickets back to new york .
it seemed to me that my life was destined to be one brilliant failure after another .
then later i had quit my safe , secure five-a-week spot on a network soap opera to take a part in this play .
i knew that i'd soon be back working as an orderly at the hospital or as a counterman at union news or schraffts while waiting for another acting job to open .
i closed the last bag and stood all three at the door for the bellboy to pick up , then went to the bathroom for a drink of water .
when i answered it a voice too dignified and british to be real said , `` is this mr. dale nelson , the actor '' ? ?
`` why don't you bastards lay off for a while '' ? ?
`` all right .
`` good .
could you possibly have lunch with him today ? ?
i smiled .
`` yes , of course , mr. nelson '' .
i finally went downstairs to the bar off the main lobby where most of the cast were drowning their sorrows over the untimely passing of ask tony .
`` all right , you bastards '' , i said , `` the great actor is about to buy a drink '' .
he had just returned my change when the doorman came in off the street to page me .
`` you mr. nelson '' ? ?
`` that's right '' .
i followed him out through the lobby to the street .
the elderly chauffeur , immaculate in a dark uniform , stood stiffly at attention holding open the door of the town car .
the oldsmobile with the license number jyj 114 was in stall number five .
i walked with him back to the entrance .
i was back in ten minutes .
he started to say something as i walked in and then suddenly grinned and said , `` oh , yes .
`` that's right '' , i told him .
can you find it all right '' ? ?
i went back to the agency car and got out an electric bug , one of the newest devices for electronic shadowing .
i put in new batteries so as to be certain i'd have plenty of power and on my way out walked over to the regular parking stalls and stood looking at them thoughtfully .
the attendant waved me on .
for the first fifteen or twenty minutes it's possible to be more or less interested in window displays , then in people passing by .
you want to sit down .
you're conscious of the fact that your feet hurt , that the city pavements are hard .
he came out alone .
the attendant recognized me once more and said , `` what did you do about that office '' ? ?
`` it's a sublease .
one here and one that's out quite a ways where there's usually curb parking '' .
i kept trying to get him to take my money .
`` i'm in a rush right now .
want me to drive it out '' ? ?
`` it's one of the rules on transients .
`` make it as snappy as you can , will you '' ? ?
`` oh , that's all right '' , he said .
you'll get in the office building here .
you get business where the business is , not where it isn't '' .
i hurried over to the agency heap , jumped in , started the motor and was just in time to see the car i wanted to shadow turn to the left .
by the time i'd made it he was gone .
i turned on the electric bug , and the signal came in loud and clear .
i stayed half a block behind him , letting lots of cars keep in between us , listening to the steady beep beep beep .
i couldn't see him , but the electric bugging device gave steady beeps when it was straight ahead , short half beeps when the car i was following was to the left , and long drawn-out beeps when it turned to the right .
i turned left too soon and got a signal showing that i was still behind him but he was to the right .
that meant he'd parked someplace .
i found a parking place half a block away , sat in the car and waited .
then he came out and started driving toward the beach .
i could get up close to him where there was traffic but had to drop far behind when there wasn't traffic .
moreover , i'd have lost him if it hadn't been for the electronic shadowing device .
i circled the block and found he was in the parking lot of a high-class restaurant .
i sat there with the faint odor of charcoal-broiled steaks tantalizing my nostrils and occasionally catching the aroma of coffee .
it was a fairly modern motel with quite a bit of electrical display in front .
i waited until my man was coming out of the office with the key to a cabin before i went in to register .
i noticed that he was in unit 12 and that he had registered under the name of oscar l. palmer and wife , giving a san francisco address .
ninety-nine times out of a hundred the motel manager doesn't check the license number on the plates against the license number the tenant writes out .
i used the alias of robert c. richards , gave the first three letters and the first and last figure of the license number on the agency heap , but a couple of phony numbers in between .
the manager of the motel was a woman who apparently didn't care .
`` you mean you're all alone , mr. richards '' ? ?
`` your wife isn't going to join you -- later '' ? ?
`` if you expect her to show up '' , she said , `` you'd better put ' and wife ' on there .
`` any difference in the rate '' ? ?
`` not to you '' , she said smiling .
there are ice cubes in a container at the far end and in another by the office .
we like to run a nice quiet place '' .
i took another sidelong glance at the other registration card , then took the key to unit 13 that she had given me and went down long enough to park the car .
not like the cracker-box construction of so many of the motel units that have stucco all over the outside but walls that are thin enough so you can hear every movement of the people in the adjoining apartment .
with the aid of that i could hear my man moving around , heard him cough a couple of times , heard the toilet flush , heard the sound of water running .
she knew where to come .
i was so hungry my stomach felt all lines of communication had been severed .
i had noticed a drive-in down the road a quarter of a mile .
the powerful microphone i could press against the wall between my motel unit and that occupied by the man would bring in the sound of any conversation , and i was positively nauseated i was so hungry .
the place wasn't particularly busy at that time of night , and the girl who was waiting on me , who was clothed in the tightest-fitting pair of slacks i had ever seen on a woman and a sweater that showed everything there was -- and there was lots of it -- wanted to be sociable .
she asked .
`` it's early in the evening to be in a hurry .
`` there may not be any women left '' , i said .
that's when my evening commences '' .
`` oh , you ! !
`` that's what they all say .
i said `` darn it , that's the automatic signal that shows when the ignition key is on .
i reached over and switched off the electronic bugging device .
then i shut off the device again .
`` don't you think it's selfish to have dinner before you go to pick her up '' ? ?
`` it's a kindness to her .
she'll eat just a pineapple and cottage cheese salad and i'm to have one with her so she won't feel out of place '' .
`` how much overweight is she '' ? ?
she looked at me provocatively .
i turned on the device again , half fearful that i might find silence , but the buzzes came in loud and clear .
the gun moved .
`` -- second building on the right '' .
`` -- so even if we was as dumb as you take us for , we could still find it '' .
the thin man waved the gun again .
`` it says water works , but there is a policeman on duty , too '' .
you know '' ? ?
at the door , dave paused to feel for the latch .
he was going to be sensible and not try to do anything rash with that gun pointed at him .
she decided to risk it .
dave had the latch under his thumb now and he removed his arm from his wife in order to pull the door open .
she tore open the back door .
there was a small sideboard with some empty beer bottles on it and perhaps fifteen wooden chairs .
rat-face at the counter was on his feet .
keeping her frightened gaze on the men at the counter , she began to feel her way to the door .
the gun followed her .
the two men watched as dave closed the door behind them , watched them cross the sidewalk to their car .
the fat man removed his apron , put on a greasy and wrinkled jacket , and zipped it over his paunch .
when he was answered , he said , `` albert ? ?
i'm sending you a couple of customers -- yeah -- just get them out of my hair and keep them out -- i don't give a damn what you tell them -- only don't believe a word they say -- they're out to make trouble for me and it is up to you to stop them -- i don't care how -- and one more thing -- cate's cafe closed at eleven like always last night and rose and clarence corsi left for quebec yesterday -- some shrine or other -- i think it was called saint simon's -- yeah , yesterday .
he turned from the phone and strode to the front of the restaurant .
good .
he said , `` grosse ? ?
`` i ain't kidding you , vince .
she musta been walking in her sleep -- you seen her yourself in here '' .
`` remember how she looked when barney held the door for her ? ?
she was just waking up when we found her at the garage '' .
`` stupid fools -- ain't got enough brains between the two of you '' --
`` -- had enough brains to call ya up so as ya could do sompin about it when the parents -- i coulda let her go go '' -- his eyes were lowered , so he couldn't have seen the narrow , pointed face of his companion suddenly writhe with fury ; ;
he knew vince steiner was one of those men who had to work up a fury once in a while just to prove how dangerous he could be .
the heavy glass didn't break , but the top flew off ; ;
not really startled , but careful to appear so , grosse sucked noisily on his pipe .
`` why does everything have to happen to me '' ? ?
vince watched him .
once he said , `` why'n hell didn't you look in the back seat of the car before you drove off ? ?
the fat man didn't answer .
he returned the menu to its place between catchup bottle and paper napkin dispenser .
`` she don't know nothing about them cars .
`` how do you know , stupid ? ?
`` i know '' .
`` -- one word of this gets to guardino '' --
vince swore again .
the fat man winced .
`` why can't i leave her locked up in the tool crib '' ? ?
`` you and barney get her over to rose's before it gets too light .
god help you if she knows where she's been '' .
`` what am i going to do with her all day ? ?
`` what the hell do i care what you do with her all day ? ?
grosse swore now .
i ain't no baby sitter '' .
grosse rubbed the bridge of his nose where it was swollen .
`` you don't hafta get nasty .
suddenly he grinned .
`` i got one question '' .
impatiently .
vince lifted his hand as if to strike , but his thin lips spread in a smile .
`` where'd you say you was born '' ? ?
and i ain't going back there on account of one lousy kid '' .
she had cried a little because she was frightened .
was it because she had shown panic ? ?
it was one thing to awaken outside a restaurant where your parents were eating and quite another to awaken in a strange garage and know your parents had gone on home without you .
barney was not really frightening .
she smiled at him wetly .
he placed a bottle opener on the counter .
she blew her nose on a tissue and opened the coke bottle .
she felt a lift in spirit .
the man was busy doing something to the inside of the door-frame on the driver's side of a car .
he looked in her direction but he didn't answer .
still no answer .
lauren said , `` why can't i call my home ? ?
i could send the money right back '' .
he dropped it and carefully ground it to nothing with the sole of his heavy shoe .
he said , `` i only work here '' .
but he was back at work on a car .
how could he be kind one moment and cruel the next ? ?
and was he afraid to do anything as definite as releasing her ? ?
the unknown was so much worse than -- what dangers lay ahead for her ? ?
something wet and hot was trickling on her wrists .
with a sturdy act of will she turned her mind away from herself ; ;
her mother and father , for instance .
in her mind she followed the white buick along the road somewhere between here and the niagara river .
then he would yawn and stretch and shout , `` all out .
and what would her mother be doing right now ? ?
lauren landis was in trouble and she was alone .
somewhere birds were sweetly calling , were answered .
`` dave .
there was a wet spot -- she couldn't have been gone long '' .
he inserted the car key in the lock .
she stammered , `` you heard what he said about police ? ?
the car door crashed shut .
dave said , `` i got the message .
roberta said , `` no .
walk .
i can sit here in the car while you walk around the corner '' .
he said , `` i'm not going to leave my wife and my car out here in sight of those '' --
his jowls were spiked by barbs of graying beard .
his eyes were threaded by little filaments of red as if tiny veins had burst and flooded blood into them .
marty recognized the man .
this was acey squire , proprietor of the juke joint .
do you know where it might have gone '' ? ?
he looked straight at marty .
marty scanned the faces of the others nearest him , looked into their staring eyes .
he asked , keeping his voice casual .
`` i have to get back to jarrodsville '' , he went on .
i wonder if one of you gentlemen could drive me back to town ? ?
the seventeen men stood and stared at him for a moment longer .
it was so utterly unexpected that marty stood for several moments with his mouth hanging open foolishly after it had happened .
yet the men all moved at the same instant .
the station wagon and the old plymouth headed east toward jarrodsville .
in seconds all four cars were out of sight .
from a great distance thunder growled and broke the silence .
he thought he saw a pale face at a window .
perhaps she would be glad that they hadn't hurt him .
across the road there was one no more than a hundred yards away .
there were many more between here and jarrodsville .
they reared tall and mocking .
not a single strand of wire reached into the silent houses beside the red-clay road .
and jarrodsville was more than three miles away , down an old dirt road that the rain had turned into a quagmire .
after he had proceeded a few feet , he paused and turned up the cuffs of his trousers , which were already damp and mud-caked .
as he approached the first farmhouse , thunder sounded behind him again , closer now and louder , like a steadily advancing drum corps .
there was a very old man and a young woman and a brood of children ranging from toddlers to teen-agers .
perhaps they had a car or truck and would drive him into town .
they were staring at him in the same blank and menacing way that the men outside the gate had stared .
on his side of the road there were two farm hands , well back in a field , leaning against a plow .
the drums of thunder were right behind him now .
he remembered a story he had read as a youth .
it concerned an officer who had been disgraced and drummed out .
marty wished these poor farm people would turn their backs .
now the dirt highway was bordered on either side by a fairly deep drainage ditch , too broad to leap over unless you were an olympic star .
he was trapped on the road when he heard the sound of an approaching car .
the car was now in sight .
it was the station wagon that had passed his cab on the road , the station wagon that had been parked at the burch farm .
it had headed back toward jarrodsville .
now acey and his friends were returning to seek him out .
then there was another sound .
it was the ford that had been outside burch's farm .
it was a narrow road , barely wide enough for two cars to pass .
when the two cars were equidistant from him , the station wagon started up again and the ford gathered speed .
there was nothing he could do except jump into the ditch .
as the two cars roared by , there was a high-pitched eerie , nerve-shattering sound .
for moments he stood in water , shivering and gasping for breath .
the cars , with their load of howling men , had disappeared in the distance .
they would be coming for him next , bearing down on him from both directions .
he would be harassed repeatedly and would escape death by inches time after time , all the way to jarrodsville .
back east the more affluent juvenile delinquents , who could afford hyped-up autos instead of switch blades as lethal weapons , played this same game and called it `` chicken '' .
that way was barred on both sides of the road by a high barbed-wire fence .
at least he could climb up on the fence when his tormenters roared by again .
he would go in there , climb through the window , and at least be safe for a little while and able to rest .
he did not dare climb back up to the road .
he splashed on , mud sucking at his feet with each step , until he reached the end of the drainage ditch and the beginning of the fence that enclosed the farm .
he stood , panting , for a moment .
the fence , his only refuge when the metal death came roaring at him , was made of rails , all right , but the rails were protected by a thick screening of barbed wire that would rip his flesh if he pressed against it .
he lost all sense of dignity .
probably people were watching him from the porch or from behind the windows of this farmhouse , too , but he did not bother to look .
he had to reach admassy's place .
the fences on both sides of the road bristled with the barbed wire .
and then he heard them .
the plymouth was coming at him from the east , the pickup truck from the west .
they would reach him at almost exactly the same instant .
if he backed against the fence , one of the cars would brush him as it passed , and he would be cruelly lacerated by the wire .
the cars must have had their gas pedals pushed down to the floor boards .
they thundered at him .
when the plymouth neared , it veered toward him and seemed about to run him down .
if he moved , he would be in the path of the other car .
in a fraction of a second the pickup truck hurtled by on the other side .
he did not leave the middle of the road .
he trudged on , his aching eyes focused straight ahead .
he was going to make it , he told himself .
`` oh , no , not again '' , he said aloud .
there was a new sound , a sound as piercing as the rebel yell , yet different .
now he saw that the approaching car was painted white , and he began to wave his arms frantically .
the car drew up alongside him and stopped .
he staggered into the back seat and lay back , fighting for breath .
it was pete holmes , the cabdriver .
but there wasn't no use in me staying there .
if i'd stayed , all that i'd have got was four punctured tires and one busted head .
you must've known i'd gone to get the sheriff .
the sheriff was occupied with maneuvering the car around in a very narrow space .
this is redneck country .
then he turned the telephone over to rourke , and went into the bedroom to change his slippers for dry socks and shoes .
`` about an hour , eh ? ?
he listened a moment and then said , `` hold it '' .
want to try and meet him there '' ? ?
that wasn't too far from fifth street , and should allow him to make scotty's bar by midnight .
i'll be there '' .
`` i don't know what you're getting into , mike '' , he said unhappily .
''
we've got one other call to make before i meet alvarez '' .
`` it's out in the northeast section .
`` it's parked in front '' .
`` i'd better keep on driving yours '' , shayne decided , `` because i'll be going on over to the beach .
he went to a closet to get a light jacket , and took his hat from beside the door .
`` a lady .
at least , i want to find out whether she's home yet or not '' .
in rourke's car , shayne drove east to biscayne boulevard and north toward felice perrin's address which had been given to him by the peralta governess .
`` i want to be in scotty's bar at midnight when marsha makes her phone call there '' , he ended grimly .
`` this deal at las putas buenas where the two knife-men jumped you '' , said rourke with interest , `` that sounds like it was set up with malice aforethought by the luscious mrs. peralta , doesn't it '' ? ?
`` that story of hers about an unsigned note directing her to be there tonight sounds completely phony .
`` do you think laura did have the counterfeit bracelet made without her husband's knowledge '' ? ?
i think her husband strongly suspects so , and that's why he called me in on the thing in direct defiance of his confederates and almost certainly without telling them why he was doing so .
shayne asked , peering ahead at the partially obscured street sign .
turn to the left , i think , for that number you gave me .
shayne got in the left-hand lane and cut across the boulevard divider .
shayne drove westward from the boulevard slowly , letting rourke crane his head out the window and watch for street numbers .
shayne noted idly that it carried miami beach license plates as he approached , and then saw the flare of a match in the front seat as they passed , indicating that it was occupied .
on the right '' .
he went around the corner and parked , turning off his lights and motor .
`` it was back there .
shayne said , `` i know it was , tim '' .
`` did you see the car parked across the street '' ? ?
i was watching for numbers .
`` it has a beach license , tim .
i got a quick look at their faces as we went past .
a couple named harris and geely .
`` wait a minute , mike .
''
`` the pair whom petey is officially commending for slapping me around and pulling me in '' .
`` a stake-out , i suppose .
maybe with specific orders to see that i don't make contact with her .
i may be wrong .
you drive on and circle back and pull up beside them parked there .
make them show their hands .
they've got no official standing on this side of the bay .
shayne opened the door on his side and stepped out .
`` the things you talk me into , mike .
shayne chuckled .
you should complain '' .
he was standing at the end of the bar enjoying a slug of cognac when rourke came in six or eight minutes later .
shayne told the bartender , `` bourbon and water '' , and rourke told him , `` it's those two , all right .
i made them show me their identification before i could be persuaded not to call on felice perrin '' .
take your time with your drink .
in exactly three minutes , go in that phone booth behind you and call police headquarters .
just say that a couple of drunks are having a hell of a fight down the street , and they better send a patrol car .
i'll be waiting for you there '' .
he said in a low voice , `` i've got a date with a lady , mister .
you know how it is '' , he added with a conspiratorial wink .
`` we sure don't '' .
he turned away and returned in a moment with a pint of brandy in a small paper sack which he slid over the counter to shayne .
`` make a couple of punk detectives named geely and harris wish to god they'd stayed out of my way this afternoon .
shayne strode out blithely , and rourke checked his watch and sipped his drink , getting a dime ready to make the telephone call to the police .
he walked over to the right-hand door , opened it and got the reloaded automatic out of the glove compartment and put it in his hip pocket .
on this side of the bay , miami beach cops had no more legal rights than any ordinary citizen , and shayne's pistol permit was just as good as theirs .
he tugged the brim of his hat low as he approached , stepped out into the street just behind the car and strode around to the right-hand side .
shayne turned the handle and jerked the door open before either of the men were quite aware of his presence in the night .
shayne stepped back to let him slump to the ground , and then dived over him through the open door into harris who was cursing loudly and trying to drag a gun from a shoulder holster , somewhat impeded by the steering wheel .
he hit him once on the sharp point of his chin and felt the body go limp .
he didn't stir .
he got the pint of liquor out of his pocket and unscrewed the top , sprinkled the pungent stuff liberally over both men , and then tossed the open bottle in on the front seat .
shayne strolled across to intercept the reporter in front of the two-story house where felice perrin lived , and asked casually , `` get the police okay '' ? ?
said they'd have a patrol car here fast .
`` why the two damned fools got all excited when they saw the bottle , and knocked each other out cold '' , shayne said good-humoredly .
got no business over here on a stake-out anyway '' .
a row of mailboxes along the wall had numbers and names on them .
the stairway on the right was dark , but there was a wall-switch at the bottom which lighted another dim bulb at the top , and they went up .
eight , nine steps above him , roberts had paused .
he looked down over the banister at the hotel desk , with the telephone and pen set .
i wouldn't have to tell them i had roberts --
he glanced up in time to see roberts hurtling down on him from above , literally flying through the air , his bloody face twisted .
he gasped for air and the impact tore his hand from the rail .
by a wrenching effort , he managed to hunch and draw in , to take the final fall on his back and shoulders rather than his head .
when his vision cleared he saw the taller one scrambling upward , reaching .
he felt his empty pocket and knew that roberts had retrieved the only weapon at hand .
he rose stiffly , forcing his knees to lock .
he made himself back off slowly , his eyes wary on roberts , who now had no more to lose than he .
after a moment he extended one hand , the fingers curled .
`` you want to be that big a fool -- i was hoping for this '' .
he held the razor well out to one side .
they were eight feet apart when roberts cleared the last step .
`` any time , roberts '' , he said .
the taunt was lost on roberts .
he was just short of arm's reach when he stopped .
there was a fixed grin on roberts' face , made hideous by the swollen nose and the smeared blood .
they moved in a series of rhythmic fits and starts , a macabre dance -- two steps back , two steps forward , two steps back .
this was going to be it now , any second , and what he had to remember was to keep his eye on the razor , no matter what , even if roberts should feint with a kick to the groin , the deadly hand was his exclusive concern .
mickey's guts twisted with the effort , but he kept his eye on the weapon .
he hunched his left shoulder into it and slashed at roberts' forearm with his own , felt the blade slide off his sleeve .
roberts sagged and slashed at him wildly .
then roberts was on him , gasping for breath and for a couple of seconds mickey lost sight of the blade .
he got a knee up into roberts' belly , used both hands and heaved him clear , then scrambled to his feet .
still clutching the razor , roberts came up into a crouch , shaking his head .
he hit roberts with his left fist in the ribs and the razor cut toward him feebly , then wobbled in mid-air .
roberts careened backward , his back arched , fought for balance and , failing , stumbled against the newel post at the foot of the stairs .
he fell on his side across the lowest step , rolled over once , then lay still .
after a minute he went to roberts , looked at one of his eyes and felt for a pulse .
roberts appeared to be dead ; ;
suddenly it was cold in the lobby .
it seemed to him that a long time had passed before he decided what to do .
there's no way to take him in now and keep those other two -- wister and the one who hired the two of them -- from finding out about roberts and lamming out .
they would have to .
there's no other way ; ;
he looked at where roberts lay sprawled on the step .
one thing , he thought , nobody knows about it yet .
he climbed the stairs , went into roberts' room , found a suitcase and packed as much into it as he could .
it didn't have to be perfect .
walking away on impulse , he might logically leave behind what it was inconvenient to carry .
it took him nearly an hour .
he left the rest of his things and returned to the lobby .
he was mildly surprised to find it was snowing .
he could feel it on his face and in his hair .
then he backed out and swung around to the front drive .
he put it in his own pocket for safekeeping .
then he went back for roberts .
he got it onto his shoulder after some work and carried it outside and down to the jeep .
he drove carefully in the direction of the brief tour they had taken earlier .
when he reached the dip in the woods , he saw that already the earlier ruts were barely discernible .
he drove in low gear to the fork in the road and swung as close as possible to the entrance to the abandoned mine .
he went back and got the flashlight , returned to the tunnel and carried the suitcase to the edge of the pit he had found earlier .
when the dust settled , he went back to the jeep and carefully worked roberts' body onto his shoulder .
the soft snow was deceitful underfoot .
inside the passage , he had to work his way over the fallen timber and nearly collapsed under his clumsy burden .
he stood looking down for a few seconds , then backed up two or three paces from the edge .
he could feel himself falling in with it and being unable to get out .
it was a bad place for roberts to wind up , but roberts had asked for it .
he knelt slowly and dumped the corpse onto the floor of the tunnel .
he was shaking with tension and it took him a couple of minutes to get his breath and settle down .
it hung momentarily on the point of dropping off .
he got to his feet and threw the flashlight beam into the pit .
deep enough , he decided .
the external signs of his approach to it would be covered by the snow , probably by the next day .
by spring it would be a skeleton .
he had started to back into the turn when he remembered the razor in his pocket .
it landed on roberts' sprawled right thigh , poised precariously , then slid off to the ground .
in the garage he checked the jeep for signs of the use he had made of it .
he wiped the steering wheel and all the places he might have touched the jeep .
there were tire marks where it had been , but they were overlapped by others and on the dusty floor would not be noticeable except under close scrutiny .
he judged her to be a woman of some pride , though not much sense .
he put in a call to cunningham from his hotel room .
jeb cautioned him not to be too hopeful and then , ignoring his own advice , said excitedly , `` but it does sound good .
that courtyard picture with the same initials '' .
i'll call you in a day or so '' .
gulf springs was ten miles inland -- more of a quaint old coast town than those along the beach made garish by tourist attractions .
the courthouse was a white-stucco building minus the customary dome .
he figured his best bet was a call on the sheriff .
seated in front of the desk , hank said , `` i'm looking for some information with very little to go on , sheriff '' .
the sheriff's swivel chair tilted back .
if there was such a person , i'm afraid she got away with it .
i think the best bet is to go through the society columns of last year and see if any of the grooms match with the obituaries a little later .
`` maybe the society editor would remember a good-looking out-of-town bride '' .
mrs. calhoun has been society editor here for twenty-five years .
she's the one who decides which wedding is to get the lead space in the sunday paper and all that '' .
`` once , when the editor was just out of the hospital from a gallstone operation , mrs. calhoun and the mother of the bride went out to his house and fought it out beside his bed .
she'd have made a great scientist dedicated to tracking down heredity and environment .
he stood up .
if you find out anything , come on back here and we'll get started on it '' .
it turned out that she also sold real estate , cosmetics , and hospital insurance .
she was a large woman with a frizzled gray poodle cut and a pencil clamped like a bit between her teeth while she hunted and pecked on an old typewriter .
`` last year ? ?
from baton rouge .
i remember her because she didn't want her picture in the paper .
`` what reason did she give '' ? ?
i didn't see her till several days later at the wedding , and her face looked like it had never had a blemish on it .
`` was her name lisa carmody '' ? ?
`` never mind .
do they still live here '' ? ?
he was a salesman for something or other and must have been transferred .
we usually run a social note when somebody moves away '' .
`` have they inherited some money or something '' ? ?
he said vaguely , `` well , it is a little legal matter , but nothing like that '' .
`` sounds like what you're after '' , he said when hank had finished .
`` mr. ferrell hirey lindsay , chairman of the board of supervisors .
wants to look up something in the newspaper files , so don't lock him in here '' .
`` i'll just leave the door open .
carruthers crossed the room to a metal door with an open grillework in the top half .
`` now don't shut this door .
before we built the new jail , we used to keep prisoners in here overnight sometimes when the old jail got too crowded .
they were a sight more comfortable than the ones in the jail with the cold air from hirey's air conditioner coming through the grille '' .
a metal table and four chairs stood in the center .
`` it's all right to smoke , but make sure your cigarettes are out before you leave .
`` i'll leave the air conditioner on for you , mr. ferrell '' , said hirey .
hank thanked them and promised to observe the rules .
chapter fourteen
an old weakness for burrowing in records rose up to tempt him .
from reconstruction to moon rockets .
last year's volume was at the top a couple of inches below the ceiling .
he pulled it over , climbed up , and lifted out the big volume , almost losing his balance from the weight of it .
since mrs. calhoun remembered only that the marriage had been in the spring , he started to plod through several months .
at last he found it in the paper of april 2 .
there was a marked contrast in the amount of information on bride and groom .
the one line on the bride said she was miss lisa carmody from baton rouge .
hank was beginning to feel sharp concern for mr. black .
now for their exodus from gulf springs .
he found it in the edition of may 15 .
next on his program was a call to the jackson office of peerless business machines to find out if vincent black was still with them -- or , more specifically , still with us .
for the next hour he scrambled happily up and down the ladder , sharing the excitement of reporters who had seen mckinley's assassination , the iroquois theater fire in chicago , and the hall-mills trial .
he turned around , saw nothing , and decided it must be a mouse .
then he knew it was not sound , but lack of it .
he jumped up and turned around to see the metal door closing .
he pressed his face against the grille .
the light shining through the grille dimly illumined the office beyond -- enough for him to see there was no one there .
`` hey , come back '' , he shouted .
then the faint beginnings of fear stirred in his mind .
and even if he'd somehow missed seeing him , he wouldn't have gone off and left the light on and door open in the file room .
but why ? ?
to come back later and kill him after the stores had closed around the square and everybody had left ? ?
nobody could hear what was going on in this underground vault .
it must be coming from an upright heater against the far wall in the supervisors' office .
except for those minutes in her room , he had lost touch with her as a reality .
they kept drifting apart and merging again in his mind like some minute form of life on a microscope slide .
`` i take a little time to think it over '' .
there would be all the nuisance of contacting someone else to take over .
and angie would hear about it .
`` time '' , said angie , and he smiled very sweet and slow at mr. skyros .
and i done favors for you , big favor not so long back , didn't i , and i'm right here to take on where pretty left off .
i don't want no trouble , you don't want no trouble , nobody wants trouble , mr. skyros '' .
he straightened his tie at the mirror with a shaking hand ; ;
angie knew -- speak of dangerous information ! !
really he had mr. skyros at bay
acourse there's this deal o' denny's -- and jackie's -- kinda hangin' fire , ain't it , maybe you've been kinda worryin' over that .
`` this deal with the ace o' spades .
ace of spades -- a widow , that was what they called a widow , these low-class crooks remembered mr. skyros distractedly .
when things got a little out of hand , they very rapidly got a lot out of hand -- it seemed to be a general rule .
mr. skyros did not at all like the look on angelo's regular-featured , almost girlishly good-looking face -- or indeed anything about angelo .
he found money much more interesting ; ;
`` look , my friend '' , he said , `` in my life i learn , how is it the proverb says , better an ounce of prevention to a pound of cure .
two weeks , a month , we talk it over again , and maybe if nothing happens meanwhile to say the cops know this and that , then we make a little deal , isn't it '' ? ?
`` i tell you , you want to leave it that way , i don't fool around with it .
i can't wait no two weeks '' .
denny said stupidly , `` why , you ain't turning angie down , are you , mr. skyros ? ?
angelo gave him an affectionate smile .
`` it's o.k. , denny , everything's o.k. ain't it , mr. skyros '' ? ?
but aside from everything else , it would scarcely be pleasant to have dealings with one who was nominally an underling and actually held -- you could say -- the whip hand .
if mr. skyros had dreamed of all the trouble that young man would eventually cause --
angie worth his weight in gold right now , but these users , they sometimes went down fast .
the sweat broke out on mr. skyros' forehead as he realized he had been actually thinking -- hoping -- planning -- perhaps --
he patted angelo's thin shoulder paternally .
`` sure , sure , you're the one take over for pretty , soon as i get the supply , get started up again , isn't it ? ?
i tell you , i know how it is with you , my friend , i sympathize , and i'll make it a special point -- a special favor -- get in touch , and get some stuff just for you .
you see , you got to remember , we all got schedules , like any business ! !
it's awkward , you see that , isn't it '' ? ?
`` i appreciate it , you do that .
we don't none of us want no trouble .
or maybe i call you -- tonight ? ?
a couple decks for me , mr. skyros -- and ten-twelve to sell , see , i like to have a little ready cash '' .
`` and you know , angelo , pretty , he always keeps it a strict cash basis , like they say '' --
`` sure , mr. skyros .
sure .
never mind how much i cut it , how much i get '' , and he smiled his sleepy smile again .
you go 'n' have a look round for it '' .
this is awkward for everybody , isn't it , we all got to put up with inconvenience sometimes .
he got out of there in a hurry , brushing past another man in the door , mopping his brow .
it could all be straightened out later .
after this deal with the bouvardier woman went through .
he was not a superstitious man , but he felt perhaps there was a little something in that , indeed .
katya roslev , who would be katharine ross so very soon now , rang up her first sale of the day and counted back the change .
usually she marked the few who did thank you , you didn't get that kind much in a place like this : and she played a little game with herself , seeing how downright rude she could act to the others , before they'd take offense , threaten to call the manager .
the kind who came into a cheap store like this ! !
and , here , i'll take this , i was before her , you wait on me now or i don't bother with it , see ! !
she'd be through here , just no time at all -- leave this kind of thing 'way behind .
never have to .
she'd be smart about it , get him to give it to her in little bills so's nobody would suspect -- maybe couldn't get it until monday account of that , the banks -- but that wasn't really long to wait .
no need say anything at all to the old woman .
she'd say she didn't feel good on sunday , couldn't go to church -- there'd be a little argument , but she could be stubborn -- and when the old woman had gone , quick pack the things she'd need to take , all but the dress she'd wear monday , and take the bag down to that place in the station where you could put things in a locker overnight , for a dime .
she wouldn't be going to get that for an hour or so after katya had left , go do the daily shopping .
a better life .
it wasn't as if she wanted much .
to be katharine ross , and work in a nicer shop somewhere , at a little more money so she could have prettier clothes , and learn ladies' manners and all like that , and get to know different people than up to now , not just the ones like her here , with foreign-sounding names , the ones went to the same church and -- different place , different job , different people , she'd be all different too .
smarter , and wear different kinds of clothes -- she'd be katharine ross , just what that sounded like .
`` think i can't count '' ? ?
she was listening to other voices , out of the future .
soon , very soon now
mendoza didn't wake until nearly nine-thirty .
already the thermometer stood close to ninety .
he made fresh coffee and searched through all the desk drawers for more cigarettes before thinking of her handbag , and found a crumpled stray cigarette at its bottom , which tasted peculiarly of face powder .
after he'd got out fresh liver for bast , he paused to look at her crouched daintily over her dish .
he seemed to remember reading somewhere that abyssinians had large litters , and suffered a dismaying vision of the apartment overrun with a dozen kittens .
-- what then '' ? ?
`` a lot of people are so peculiar that they don't like cats , it's not the easiest thing in the world to find good homes for kittens -- and , damn it , you know very well if i have them around long , impossible to give them away ! !
yes , well , it's a pity to spoil your girlish figure -- which all those kittens would do anyway -- but i think when you've raised these we'll just have the vet fix it so there won't be any more .
and it's no good looking at me like that '' , as she wound affectionately around his ankles .
`` happened to be in the hall ! !
oh , well , you can't really blame lolotte .
but she was talking of emile when she saw the black line of the open door ; ;
maude went on .
miss celie's taken to her bed , with the door locked .
here '' -- she thrust a bundle of keys strung on a thick red cord into sarah's hand .
drink your coffee '' --
`` it's -- cold '' .
`` i don't want it '' , sarah said , firmly .
well -- i'll take it down with me as i go '' .
at the door she turned back , her roman nose looking very long now and satiric .
ben and lucien have gone after them .
`` i don't know mrs. stowe .
`` they can't do anything .
i told ben so .
she had swished away , she had been gone for a long time probably when sarah suddenly realized that she ought to stop her , pour out the coffee , so no one would drink it .
she was deeply , horribly sure that lucien had filled it with opium .
she felt cold and hot , sticky and chilly at the same time .
lucien is not the only person in this house who could have put opium in that coffee .
or someone had taken it during her first day at honotassa .
rilly or glendora had entered her room while she slept , bringing back her washed clothes .
it would have been easy to identify as opium by its odor .
he didn't even know that she was there .
no , he had been surprised , unpleasantly surprised , but surprised .
don't question , rev had said , don't invite danger .
sarah had begun to tell lucien of emile , she had begun to question and a little draft had crept across the room from the bedroom door , open barely enough to show a rim of blackness in the hall .
that was not reasonable either .
she began to doubt whether there had been in fact a lethal dose of opium in the cup .
that made a certain amount of logic .
no .
she wouldn't go back to new york as maude suggested ; ;
but -- well , she'd be very careful .
but before she left her room she dug into her big moire bag , took out the envelope holding her marriage contract and the wax seal had been broken .
rev had known all along .
he could conceivably have wished to make sure ; ;
rev had stressed the need for money .
she thrust the envelope back in the bag ; ;
and in all likelihood , by now , there was more than one person in the house who knew the terms of her marriage contract .
she went downstairs and received another curious shock , for when glendora flapped into the dining room in her homemade moccasins , sarah asked her when she had brought coffee to her room and glendora said she hadn't .
sarah swallowed past another kind of constriction in her throat .
`` miss maude .
glendora put down a dish of lukewarm rice .
i don't know what we're going to do , miss sarah '' .
maude ? ?
the rice wasn't dosed with opium , indeed it had no taste at all , not a grain of salt .
in the kitchen glendora was despairingly picking chickens .
`` we'll go to the storehouse '' .
sarah found the right key and unlocked the door .
it was dark but dry and cool .
the shelves looked emptier than when miss celie had shown her the storeroom , and since the men from the commissary had called ; ;
she took glendora to the smokehouse , unlocked it and saw with satisfaction there was still a quantity of hams and sides of bacon , hanging from the smoke-stained rafters .
and the fields were green and growing .
maude had said .
she sent glendora back to the house , her basket and her apron laden .
maude had the opportunity to take the bottle of opium from sarah's room .
she couldn't see how her death could affect maude .
besides , there was something hysterical and silly , something almost childish about an attempt to frighten her .
yet maude had suggested that sarah return to new york .
there was no use in standing there in the drizzle , trying to find a link between emile's murder and opium in a cup of coffee .
rev , george and lolotte were mending shoes .
they were all three bent over a shabby riding boot ; ;
lolotte held a patch of leather , rev steadied something , a tiny brad , waiting for george's poised hammer .
`` with boots on '' , lolotte laughed softly .
lolotte looked up and stiffened .
there was no way to know , no way to guess whether any one of them was surprised at sarah's appearance , believing her to be drugged and senseless -- and just possibly dead .
reckon you know the news '' .
rev's face was suddenly a little fixed and questioning .
`` take your cobbler's shop somewhere else .
everything in the office , the spreading circle of lamplight , the patch of leather in lolotte's hands .
a rush of panic caught sarah .
not now .
glendora '' --
now why did i do that ? ?
she was no schoolgirl , refusing to bear tales .
if she told anyone of the opium it must be lucien , her husband .
so she couldn't choose rev as a confidant ; ;
always provided that lucien himself had not dosed her coffee with opium , she thought , as coldly and sharply , again , as maude might have said it .
glendora gave a gulp .
miss maude say she won't '' .
the homely everyday details of living and domestic requirements also pressed upon her with their immediate urgency .
she eyed the chickens with , if she had known it , something of glendora's dismal look and thought with a certain fury of the time she had spent on latin verbs .
i didn't think there was any reason to '' .
speak to him again anyway .
try to find out how happy he is with his wife , whether he plays around with women .
she might have been talking to some of her friends about her husband if they've been having any trouble '' .
`` yeah .
`` then again he might not '' .
`` black is gilborn's best friend '' .
`` will you be coming back soon '' ? ?
i'm on my way to see the jacobs woman '' .
what for ? ?
`` i don't think anything .
conrad interrupted .
i'd like to make sure .
`` right .
`` aren't you ever going to go home '' ? ?
i'm telling you , if these corpses ever knew the trouble they put us to , they'd think twice before letting themselves get knocked off '' .
conrad hung up and sat on the small telephone-booth bench , massaging his right leg .
it was ten minutes before eleven .
thirty years' experience let him know , even at this early stage , that black was his man .
it was a cold , windy day , the day after kitti's death , but stanley gilborn paid no attention to the blustery october wind .
he simply walked , not noticing where he was , not caring .
as he walked , he tried to think .
of himself .
there was nothing coherent about his thinking .
the enormity of what conrad had told him made it impossible for gilborn to accept , with any degree of realism , the actuality of it .
emotionally , they penetrated him not at all .
gilborn remembered conrad's exact words .
he knew conrad had told him the truth .
yet it wasn't so .
when kitti was alive -- and he remembered the pressure of her hand resting lightly on his arm -- she had been the center of his life .
for fifty-five years he had lived , progressing towards a no-goal , eating , working , breathing without plan , without reason .
she was his goal , she was his reason .
not once , in the time that he had known her , had he ever considered the possibility , not once , not for one one-thousandth of a second , of her infidelity .
not really .
the walk ended , inevitably , right in front of his hotel building .
he looked at gilborn with undisguised curiosity .
he crossed the lobby and rode up in the elevator lost in his own thoughts .
the police were no longer there .
except that kitti wasn't there .
at last , sitting there , in the familiar surroundings , the truth began to sink in .
he felt no anger towards kitti , no sense that she had betrayed him .
she was all he had , everything he had , everything he wanted .
who ? ?
where there is a victim , there is a killer .
whoever he was and your wife were intimate .
quickly , he went into the bedroom .
gilborn stood there for a long time .
the bed was empty now .
he would lie in it no more .
for thirty minutes , stanley gilborn stood there .
who ? ?
gilborn put on his coat again .
he knew he would never see it again .
on blanche jacobs , kitti gilborn's death had a quite different effect .
in blanche's defense , it must be said she was unaware of the newborn hope .
the figures on the worksheet paper in front of her were jumping and waving around so badly it was all she could do to make them out clearly enough to copy them with the typewriter .
she wanted to be with him , to give him the comfort and companionship she knew he needed .
he hadn't .
why hadn't he called ? ?
she tried to think of his unpredictable actions in the eleven years she had known him and discovered they weren't so many after all .
that was one of the things she liked about stanley .
the dentist last night , for instance .
he had taken her upstairs to say good night .
it was in the kitchen , as she was watching the kettle , waiting for the water to boil , that he had grabbed for her .
from behind , he had put his arms on her shoulders , turned her around , and pressed her to him , so close she couldn't breathe .
but he hadn't understood .
stanley wasn't like that .
except for that one morning .
she thought she was going to die .
blanche couldn't remember when she had first arrived at this conclusion .
it was nothing that he said or did , but it seemed so natural to her that she should be working for him , looking forward to his eventual proposal .
her mother was already considerably concerned over her daughter's future .
for blanche , it was only a matter of time before stanley would propose .
stanley went along in life , she knew , convinced that he deserved the love and faith of no woman .
but one day , she expected , he would somehow discover , without her having to tell him , that there was such a woman in the world ; ;
indeed , there was a woman who , unasked , had already given him love .
and then , unexpectedly , stanley made his announcement .
it might have been easier for her if kitti walker hadn't been everything that blanche was not .
kitti could have married a score of men .
kitti had come into the office , on somebody's recommendation , because she needed help in preparing her income tax return .
blanche knew all this because the door to stanley's office was open and , without straining too hard , she could hear everything that was said .
he hadn't come back for over two .
there were mornings when stanley came in late , afternoons when he left early , days when he didn't come in at all .
it was too unprecedented .
somehow , blanche managed to cover the stunned surprise and offer her congratulations .
while they were away blanche came into the office every morning , running things as she had always run them for stanley , going through the week in a dazed stupor , getting things done automatically , out of habit .
on the morning of stanley's return , however , her strength left her .
she stayed away for ten days .
mostly , she stayed in bed .
she refused to have a doctor , insisting there was nothing a doctor could do for her .
`` also , if you're going to believe those prints , you'll have to look for a killer who's a top-grade piano player '' .
to make it clearer he shifted to acting out , but with no change of manner , the killing of rose mallory .
in the same way he pantomimed grasping a mantel and bouncing cleanly off that , pressing his hands against the floor and bouncing cleanly off that .
if rose mallory's killer acted this way , catching up with him was going to be a cinch .
perhaps if felix had first come upon us when this boy was not cavorting so gaily up and down the hall outside the murdered woman's apartment , we might have had less trouble convincing felix of our seriousness .
by the time felix turned up it was early afternoon , which , one would think , would be late enough so that by then , except for small children and a few hardy souls who had not yet sobered up , it could have been expected that people would no longer be having any sort of active interest in the previous night's noisemakers and paper hats .
he had retained his hat and his horn , and , whatever fun might still be going , he was ready to join it .
after all , he hadn't happened upon us in that second-floor hall without warning .
the meat wagon , therefore , was not out in front of the house any more , but the cluster of squad cars was still there and there was a cop on the door downstairs to screen any comings and goings .
just put yourself in felix's place for a moment .
you've been away from home for the new year festivities , but now the party is over and you come home .
you still have your paper hat and you're wearing it , but then , it is an extraordinary paper hat and , in addition to anything else you may be , you are also the sculptor who created that most peculiar dame out in the back yard .
you have your paper horn clutched in your big , craggy fist , and for your entrance you have planned a noisy , colorful and exuberant greeting to your friends and tenants .
can you imagine yourself forgetting under the circumstances that you are approaching this startling and unexpected situation so unsuitably hatted and armed with a paper horn ? ?
you shoulder your way through the cluster of the curious and you barge up to the cop on the door .
instead of answering you , he sticks his head in the door and shouts up the stairs .
`` the owner .
then he turns back to you .
`` they'll tell you what's cooking '' .
what i'm getting at is that we were fully prepared for felix's being an odd one .
we were not , however , prepared for anything like the apparition that confronted us as felix came up the stairs .
if felix was still wearing the hat and carrying the horn because he'd forgotten about them , he now remembered .
he adjusted the hat , lifted the horn to his lips as though it were a flute , and fell in alongside our fingerprint expert to cavort with him .
felix threw his head back and laughed a laugh that shook the timbers of even that solidly built old house .
he was big-chested , big-shouldered and heavy-armed .
i don't remember ever seeing teeth that were quite so white and at the same time quite so emphatically not dentures .
he had only a fringe of hair and he wore it cropped short .
for a man of his mass he was curiously short .
a man with so big and so staggeringly developed a torso and such long and powerful arms is expected to stand taller than five feet five .
the man was just this side of being a freak .
he was dressed in a manner esquire might suggest for the outdoor man's country weekend .
his eyes were clear .
not even a whiff .
`` felix '' ? ?
`` me '' , he said merrily .
`` that much latin we remember '' , gibby said dryly .
`` i try '' , felix said blithely .
i've never noticed that it improves things any '' .
`` what's the rest of your name '' ? ?
felix is all there is '' .
`` the past i leave to historians '' , felix intoned , demonstrating that he could be pompous as well as happy .
`` in the present '' , felix proclaimed .
is there any other time in which a man can live '' ? ?
we are assistant district attorneys .
he is a fingerprint specialist .
the happy one could never have looked happier .
it was ecstasy .
`` so intricate , so beautiful .
i love fingerprints '' .
gibby called him back .
`` past , yes , but important .
felix asked .
`` grubb '' , felix whispered .
gibby asked , not bothering to whisper .
`` i can't see what would make it necessary for you to know .
obligingly gibby lowered his voice .
he repeated .
edmund , but not for years .
first thing i did after my twenty-first birthday was go into court and have it officially changed , and this is something i don't tell everybody .
having volunteered that he was a man of about sixty , he bounded up the stairs and with each leap rendered the number less credible .
we followed him up the stairs .
you may think we didn't need nancy and jean , but you always get what you can when you can , and we had no guarantee that a fingerprint record on them couldn't be useful before we were through with this case .
the killer , if in our present group , would certainly be interested in knowing that much , and even though with the fingerprint evidence what it was i could see no way he could use this bit of information to improve on his situation , there might always be some way .
felix took us into his studio .
at each angle of its pitch a big skylight had been fitted into the roof and all these skylights were fitted with systems of multiple screens and shades .
he quickly fixed that , rolling back the shades on some of the skylights and adjusting screens on the others .
none of his movements was tentative .
starting with the room completely blacked out , as it was when we came in , he unerringly fixed things so that the whole place was bathed in the maximum of light without at any point admitting even so much as a crack of glare .
there was no display of either works in progress or of finished work .
these shapes might have been mad , but there was no telling .
the equipment was solid and heavy and in good condition .
there were tools about but they were neatly kept .
supplies of sheet metal were neatly stacked in bins .
someone on his staff -- he suspected it was ed thornburg -- intercepted them and for this andy was grateful .
memory flooded him the instant he opened his eyes and the sick feeling knotted his stomach .
presumably the same sun was shining upon little drew also , and those who had kidnapped him .
it was still a very big world , despite all the modern cant to the contrary .
he was dozing , perhaps the only sleep he'd gotten .
`` sorry , mr. paxton .
lot of people waiting to see you , though '' .
`` our own people .
hub picked up the telephone .
`` i suppose .
hub considered .
she's got plenty of guts , mr. paxton .
`` she expecting me to '' ? ?
the only reason for contacting lissa was to comfort or to be comforted .
they had nothing to give to each other .
he had little time to himself , anyway .
thornburg arrived with the writers .
what remained lacked the original verve but it was at least dignified , as befitting the tragic circumstances .
charlie marble was back and forth on several occasions , first to confer with andy on the advisability of cancelling the las vegas engagement -- they decided it was wise -- and later to announce that a prominent comedian , also an agency client , had agreed to fill the casino's open date .
he asked if there was anything he could do .
but from rocco vecchio , they heard nothing .
hub , nosing about , spotted reporters in the lobby , so andy was hustled away quietly through the hotel's service entrance in a strange car which hub had procured somewhere .
el dorado was surrounded by a mob .
long before he reached the protection of the stage door , andy was recognized .
they surged around him , fingers pointing , eyes prying .
they had come not to admire but to observe .
`` skolman's jammed in every table he could find .
backstage was tomblike by contrast .
but in his dressing room was a large bouquet and a card that read , `` we're with you all the way '' .
andy couldn't help but be touched .
bake was waiting to report that lou duvol had been sobered up to the point where he could function efficiently .
bake himself looked better ; ;
andy told him , `` bake , i wish you'd talk to skolman , see if some kind of p. a. system can be rigged up outside .
i wouldn't want him to miss the message '' .
skolman isn't going to like it much , though , giving away what he should be selling '' .
a short time later , lieutenant bonner stomped into the dressing room .
it's those damn loudspeakers '' .
`` what about them '' ? ?
my men have been here all afternoon , setting up for this thing '' .
motion picture cameras had been installed to film the audience , the reservation list was being checked out name by name , and a special detail was already at work in the parking lot scrutinizing automobiles for a possible lead .
`` i want you to have the speakers taken out '' .
`` seems like we're never going to see eye to eye , lieutenant .
`` sure , i know .
`` no longer than yours .
you think somebody is going to stand up in the audience and make guilty faces ? ?
andy crumbled the script in his fist .
but don't try to stop me , either '' .
i can hardly wait '' .
but bonner departed , still full of ill will .
he had to cling to routine , tested procedures .
but , admit or not , bonner was helpless .
andy's performance was scheduled for eleven o'clock .
bake and shirl winter , on separate telephones , could not reach him at any conceivable location in los angeles , nor could they secure any clear-cut information regarding his efforts .
`` the sweaty bastard's probably halfway to peru with our money by now '' .
thornburg popped in to advise , `` andy , skolman's sending up smoke signals .
`` what's he complaining about '' ? ?
`` they're drinking , aren't they '' ? ?
we got a bunch of sippers out there tonight .
thornburg added in a lower voice but andy overheard , `` they act more like a jury than an audience '' .
hub , you stick by the stage door .
shirl winter said , `` i'll stay on the phone , mr. paxton .
`` you're a sweetheart -- but leave one line open .
andy passed into the corridor , their `` good lucks '' ! !
it was what they said before every performance but tonight it sounded different , as if he really needed it .
the act , cut to shreds and hastily patched together during the afternoon , had not been rehearsed sufficiently by anyone .
here's where luck would normally step in .
whether he sang well or badly had nothing to do with it .
twenty-four hours had changed him from a performer to a freak .
eliminating the patter and the upbeat numbers left little but blues and other songs of equal melancholy .
yet andy plowed ahead , mouthing the inconsequential words as if they possessed real meaning , and gradually his listeners warmed to him .
the evening was still not beyond salvaging , not as a show but for him as a person .
as andy reached the finale of his act , a subdued commotion backstage drew his attention to the wings .
vecchio was nodding and pointing at the large suitcase he held .
he waved at fox to cut off the finale introduction .
he drew a deep breath .
ray , if you please -- the ' cradle song ' '' .
nor could he blame them .
having no choice , he plunged into it , anyway , holding onto the microphone for support .
''
for the first time in his life he forgot the lyrics midway through and had to cover up by humming the rest .
they did ; ;
but when he was finally through , their scorn was made apparent .
otherwise , the silence was complete .
he stumbled off-stage .
`` my god '' .
`` it's okay , mr. paxton .
at this moment , all he could think of was what he'd been forced to undergo .
do you know what they think of me '' ? ?
`` who needs them '' ? ?
`` sure , andy , it'll be all right .
the words were hollow .
all the king's horses and all the king's men
`` i got it , andy .
you'll never believe the places i've been today .
andy nodded dully .
we've done our part '' .
the usual congratulatory crowd was conspicuously absent ; ;
andy had no desire to linger himself but hub reported that the mob outside was still large despite the efforts of the police to disperse them .
`` dad .
he caught up with the old man in the living room .
`` just this one favor , dad .
`` why not '' ? ?
under the scraggly brows the pale old eyes burned with a bitter memory .
`` the bartlett girl was killed by mr. dronk's son .
they've found some sort of new evidence , a bundle of clothes or something , and it must link the kid even stronger to the crime .
the two kids were together a lot , they were having some kind of teen-age affair -- god knows how far that had gone -- and the kid's crippled .
my god , how much more do you want '' ? ?
`` you sound like an old woman .
`` now , see here '' --
young mrs. arthur had opened the oven and there was a drifting odor of hot biscuits .
`` isn't enough time to go into it '' , he finished , and slammed the door in his son's face .
`` they found something else up there '' , she said half-aloud to the empty room .
she walked restlessly across the room , then back to the windows .
she stood frowning and chewing her lip .
she smoothed the skirt , sat down , then stood up and went back to the windows .
there was excuse enough to keep him home that young mr. arthur's still over there '' .
`` i think you had better come home '' .
mr. crosson's been on everybody's neck , an order he expected didn't come through and he's '' --
i want you here .
i need someone to go out and find out what's happening '' .
his voice grew high and trembling .
they'll they'll think i did something '' .
the teeth that shone into the phone were like a shark's .
you can't wander along in the dark , can you ? ?
they found some clothes '' , she tossed in .
deliberately , she ignored the yelp .
i guess he wants to ask you some questions .
he doesn't expect you until five '' .
`` no-o-o .
she slapped the receiver into its holder and stepped away .
in his office , mr. holden replaced the phone slowly .
he had to cough then ; ;
he got his hat out of the closet .
he passed the receptionist in the outer office , muttering , `` i've got to go out for a little while '' .
he got into the car .
once out in the street , the traffic was a gadfly maze in which he wandered stricken .
what on earth was in mae's mind , that she wanted him up there spying on what the cops were doing ? ?
he tried to ignore what his own common sense told him , but it wasn't possible ; ;
she wanted him to get into trouble .
she was going to keep on scheming , poking , prodding , suggesting , and dictating until the cops got up enough interest in him to go back to their old neighborhood and ask questions .
nothing bald , open ; ;
they'd have some suspicions to repeat to the police .
it hadn't amounted to anything .
a second scene flashed before his mind , the interior of the garage at the new house and the young bartlett girl turning startled to meet him , the dim dark and the sudden confusion and fear and then the brightness as mae had clicked on the light .
well , it hadn't been what it seemed , he'd had no idea the girl was in there .
and when he came to examine the scene , there was a certain staginess to it , it had the smell of planning , and a swift suspicion darted into his mind .
mae wouldn't have plotted a thing like that .
like this murder .
he felt light-headed and sick .
mae was his wife .
she wouldn't be wilfully planning his destruction .
she was .
he drove , and the road wobbled , familiar scenes crept past on either side .
he had the feeling that he should abandon the car and run off somewhere to hide .
there was really no place to go , finally , except home to mae .
cooper was beside his car , on the curb at the right , just standing there morosely ; ;
behind him on the steps of the little office sat old man arthur ; ;
holden stepped on the gas .
he could go to the police .
he could throw himself on the mercy of the police department .
he was sure of this .
at that moment , holden almost slammed on the brakes to go back to cooper and ask if ferguson was about .
what was that old sign , supposed to be painted over a door somewhere , abandon hope , all ye who enter here ? ?
they've worried , they've lain awake nights , they've shook at the slightest footstep , they've pictured their own destruction , and now it's all over and they can give up .
hand in hand with hope went things like terror and apprehension .
holden waved a hand at the empty street .
he drove into the paved space before the garage and got out , slamming the car door .
if ferguson's car had been in sight , holden would have walked directly to it .
mae entered the room from the hallway to the kitchen .
she stood there , watching holden come in , and she put the piece of toast in her mouth and bit off one corner with a huge chomp of her white teeth .
`` i've been thinking '' , she said , swallowing the toast .
you used them that time you painted the porch at our other house .
she had caught him off guard , no preparation , nothing certain but that ahead lay some kind of disaster .
wait a minute .
`` i've been looking for them , and they're gone .
or even yesterday .
the police have them now '' .
`` they were all faded .
she stood sipping and chewing and watching .
well , i'm not sure of the color .
`` mae , sit down .
tell me what this is all about '' .
she took another bite of toast .
`` my goodness , you ought to remember if i do .
tell them the truth or something before they come here '' .
his nerves seemed frost-bitten down to the tips of his tingling fingers and his spine felt stiff and glass-like , liable to break like an icicle at any moment .
a man with a sketch pad in hand sat with a large pink woman in a small office at the end of a long , dim corridor and made pencil lines on paper and said , `` is this more like it , mrs. macready ? ?
when he had finished with that , he would go to another part of the hotel and say much the same things to someone else , most probably a busboy .
different about the mouth , huh ? ?
men blew dust on objects in a room on the seventeenth floor of the hotel dumont and blew it off again , and did the same in a tiny , almost airless room in a tenement in the west forties .
men from the third detective district , eighteenth precinct , had the longest , the most tedious , job .
these included , as one , mr. and mrs. anthony payne , who had checked in a little after noon the day before , and had not checked out together .
he had been at the dumont for almost a week .
the twenty-three ( or twenty-two with the paynes themselves omitted ) provided merely a place to start , and their identification was the barest of starts .
it would take time ; ;
( `` i certainly was not at the dumont last night and my husband couldn't have been .
of course he's in '' -- )
the king arthur offered respectable and convenient lodgings to people from the suburbs who wanted to see a show and didn't want -- heaven knew didn't want ! !
the king arthur was less expensive than the dumont .
check the overnighters out .
( anyone active enough can reach a roof , wherever his room may be .
it was not even certain the shot had been fired from either hotel .
it is dull business , detecting , and hard on feet .
like , for example , a man carrying a twenty-two rifle , probably with a telescopic sight attached ? ?
the sniper , whether psychopathic marksman or murderer by intent , would hardly have walked to his vantage point with rifle over shoulder , whistling a marching tune .
long thin suitcase ? ?
shrugs met that , from room clerks , from bellhops .
but nothing , it appeared , long enough to attract attention .
none noted at the dumont .
a combo was staying there .
anything else ? ?
shrugs met that .
a refuse bin at the dumont turned up a florist's box -- a very long box for very long-stemmed flowers .
the lab to check .
no oil .
anything at all strange ? ?
at the dumont , a guest had come in a collapsible wheel chair .
there had also been a man who must have had st. vitus or something , because he kept jerking his head .
mullins came in .
the house was modern , large , on five acres .
the state cops would check from time to time ; ;
weigand tossed this news into the centrifuge .
sort out the next move .
consider opportunity .
the norths ; ;
livingston birdwood , producer of uprising .
take gardner willings .
had been seen to leave .
consider him seriously , therefore ? ?
willings would ambush , certainly ; ;
willings was , presumably , a better than average shot .
because , if for no other reason , willings would never for a moment suppose he was not bigger , tougher , than anything else that went on two legs .
faith constable had had to `` go on '' from the party and had , presumably , gone on .
forget motive ? ?
nobody in his right mind punishes a quarter-century-old dereliction .
faith constable had accomplished much in a quarter of a century .
bill shook his head .
lauren herself ? ?
no lack of opportunity , presuming she had a gun .
( check on the payne luggage .
motive -- her husband wandering ? ?
heaven knew it happened and hell knew it too .
( call it mentally young ; ;
) there was nothing to indicate that lauren payne was primitive .
she was young , but not that young .
he reminded himself that all eliminations were tentative .
the masons , mother or son , or mother and son ? ?
motive .
but bitterness had more cause to remain , even increasingly to corrode .
the boy had , apparently -- if mrs. macready was right in what she had told mullins -- only in recent months been forced to give up college , to work as a busboy .
bill picked up the telephone ; ;
`` send out a pickup on mrs. mason and the boy when you've got enough to go on '' , bill said .
mullins would do .
he would say , of course , that he had not really had any such wish ; ;
which probably would turn out to be true ; ;
a man named blaine smythe , with `` y '' and `` e '' but pronounced without them , had been fired at payne's insistence .
he might deny the latter ; ;
he would have to be given the opportunity .
it was evident that mullins was the man to go .
bill weigand was good and tired of the wall opposite , and the crack in the plaster .
let stein .
stilts and shadow , on pam's bed , appeared to be one cat -- rather large , as siamese cats go , and , to be sure , having two heads and two tails .
pamela north said , `` hi '' , to her cats , and added that proper cats met their humans at the door .
`` all right '' , pam said .
but at this the one too-large cat suddenly became two cats , stretching .
stilts , a more direct cat , leaped from the bed and trotted briskly toward the kitchen .
the hell it isn't dinnertime , two waving tails told pam north .
martha presumably would cope .
it was most unlikely that she would be firm .
after a time , it occurred to her that her thoughts were not worth the trouble .
had faith constable's explanation of her confidence , so uninvited , been a little thin ? ?
had that tall dark boy , carrying trays too heavy for him , found what he might have considered adulation of a man he probably hated more than he could bear ? ?
-- of a rifle and killed ? ?
had only a hope .
some people have luck and some have no luck and that , whatever people who prefer order say , is the size of it .
the telephone rang .
at four o'clock in the afternoon .
i ought to remember .
you do remember .
yes , this is she ? ?
the voice had music in it .
`` i said i would '' , pam said .
not unless they have to .
not unless they have '' --
`` call this a cry for help '' , faith constable said .
`` that damn door '' , said the police chief .
madden's dark face wore a meditative look .
and it makes a very poor red herring for an inside job .
`` don't forget , there was the hope it would pass for a natural death '' , pauling reminded him .
`` yeah .
the telephone interrupted him .
i was hoping i'd hear from you today '' .
at last he said , `` well , thank you for calling , mr. benson .
he hung up .
`` he's just heard from the pathologist who says mrs. meeker apparently died from suffocation '' .
`` many minute hemorrhages in the lungs ; ;
scrapings from the bed linen identical with the lint and thread found in the nasal and oral cavities .
trachea clear of mucus and foreign objects .
no signs of these , no gross hemorrhage of lungs , heart , brain or stomach '' .
`` that's about it .
the duration of the digestive process varies , the pathologist says , but the empty stomach and the findings in the upper gastrointestinal tract indicate that mrs. meeker died several hours after her seven-o'clock dinner .
pauling paused again .
`` not your problem , of course , unless johnston and the murderer are one and the same '' .
however likely it was , pauling said , he couldn't limit himself to it .
madden , with his investigation centered on the fraud , said that tomorrow he would go to the bronx bank through which mrs. meeker's checks to johnston had cleared .
he might have been in collusion with johnston on the fraud ; ;
this was madden's suggestion ; ;
if arthur williams was involved in the fraud or the murder , then he too had another identity .
scholarship applicant ? ?
madden explained that he was thinking of an application sent directly to mrs. meeker .
madden said that he would see him at two and made another call , this one to mrs. meeker's lawyers .
the secretary's tone indicated that an appointment at such short notice was a concession for which madden should be duly grateful .
he had lunch with pauling .
he disliked garth on sight , conservative clothes and haircut , smile a shade too earnestly boyish for a man who must be well into his thirties , handclasp too consciously quick and firm .
that mrs. garth would be impeccably suitable as the wife of a rising young lawyer ; ;
that she was active in the woman's club and he in lions , rotary , and jaycee ; ;
madden knew that he could be completely wrong about all this , but also knew that he would go right on disliking garth .
madden regretted not being able to find fault with so true a statement .
garth brought one out .
`` fairly recent '' , he remarked .
`` oh no .
her estate had grown considerably .
particularly the scholarship fund .
garth hesitated .
most of them this past year , i'd say .
she'd have consulted us , you see .
the inspector nodded , doubting this .
with her sharp tongue she'd have cut his pompousness to ribbons .
madden settled back to read the will .
two millions were added to what had been set aside for it in mrs. meeker's lifetime , and the proviso made that as long as brian thayer continued to discharge his duties as administrator of the fund to the satisfaction of the board of trustees ( hereinafter appointed by the bank administering the estate ) he was to be retained in his present capacity at a salary commensurate with the increased responsibilities enlargement of the fund would entail .
tenure , too .
he went on to personal bequests , a list of names largely unknown to him .
to brian thayer , the sum of ten thousand dollars ; ;
to joan sheldon the conditional bequest of ten thousand to be paid to her in the event that she was still in mrs. meeker's employ at the time of the latter's death .
mrs. meeker hadn't got around to taking care of that .
too bad , madden thought .
mr. hohlbein was left twenty thousand , garth ten .
arthur williams's might well have been included , he felt .
madden took up this point with garth , who shrugged it off .
`` this one came a bit high at thirty thousand or more .
`` sometimes we'd have trouble persuading her to make tax-exempt charitable contributions , and i've known her to quarrel with a plumber over a bill for fixing a faucet ; ;
there was no telling how she'd react to spending money '' .
there was an annual audit , garth informed him .
brian thayer was a thoroughly honest and competent administrator .
his expenses ran another four or five thousand .
but he didn't play golf , didn't seem to belong to any local clubs -- his work took him away a lot , of course -- which probably accounted for his tendency to keep to himself .
he said that he had already told the police chief that he didn't know what insurance man had recommended johnston to mrs. meeker .
the whole thing , his manner conveyed , was so far outside the normal routine of hohlbein and garth that it practically demanded being swept under the rug .
even so , madden's dislike of the suave , correct lawyer deepened .
motive ? ?
at first glance , not much of a motive for a man of his standing ; ;
the inspector knew as he left that this was wishful thinking .
brian thayer had a downtown address .
he occupied a two-bedroom apartment on the fourth floor , using the second bedroom as his office .
done by a professional decorator , madden thought , and somehow as impersonal , as unremarkable as its occupant .
in medfield , perhaps twenty-five less , not all of it paid by thayer , who could charge off one room on his expense account .
it contained a desk , files , a typewriter on a stand , and two big leather armchairs .
thayer folded it up and offered a drink .
to begin the interview , he asked if thayer , with more time to think it over , could add to what he had said the other day about johnston .
`` it's all i think about , too .
it's still unbelievable that it was murder .
`` dammit , phil , are you trying to wreck my career ? ?
griffith had confronted hoag on the building's front steps -- hoag had been permitted no further -- and backed him against a wrought-iron railing .
hoag said , `` i didn't send for you , leigh .
where is he '' ? ?
the undersecretary's in there .
it's all in your mind '' .
`` why , i'm not fit to touch the hem of her garment '' .
it's not about you or midge .
griffith looked at him suspiciously through red-rimmed eyes .
you mean it , phil ? ?
i did get you on the platform this morning '' .
will you call that captain '' ? ?
he peered closely at hoag in the gathering darkness .
`` i was hit -- knocked out .
`` he says i'm to take the message '' .
`` who'd hit you in the head '' ? ?
you get back to the captain and tell him this : somebody's going to take a shot at the prime minister , and mahzeer is in on the plot .
griffith said , `` that's impossible .
`` nevertheless it's true '' .
griffith was trying to clear his head of the champagne fuzz that encased it .
mahzeer and the prime minister are alone right now '' .
`` so that proves it '' ! !
`` where are they '' ? ?
mahzeer's office '' .
`` facing us , two flights up .
they won't even let you in the front door .
hoag grabbed him by the shoulders .
if you want to spend another day in the state department -- another day -- you get in there and tell that captain what i told you '' .
`` and you know i can do it '' .
`` easy does it , phil .
i'm on my way '' .
on the second landing he paused to look for docherty , didn't see him , and accepted a glass of champagne .
the way hoag was , no telling what he might say or do .
at the top a uniformed officer blocked further progress .
he asked .
he spotted docherty coming out of a room at the far end of the corridor and called to him .
they walked toward each other .
griffith said , `` hoag told me to tell you '' -- he waited until they were close ; ;
griffith looked half-crocked to the captain ; ;
`` why not '' ? ?
docherty went taut : was it possible ? ?
not possible , he thought ; ;
he wasn't going to allow himself to be led meekly to the slaughter .
docherty was damned if he would make a fool of himself again the way he had earlier over the laundry truck .
still , this had to be checked out .
he asked .
`` would you mind sending him up here ? ?
troubled , he continued along the corridor , poking his head into the next office for a careful look around .
he was unwilling to rely on griffith's carrying his message , and he had no confidence the police would act on it .
he would have to do something on his own .
the door opened and three men and a woman in a sari swept past him and down the stairs .
these were the early departures ; ;
if mahzeer was planning to set up the prime minister for muller he would have to do it in the next few minutes .
wide windows with many small leaded panes swept across the upper stories .
the scene looked like a christmas card .
it was framed in maroon drapes , and no faces were visible .
he and the prime minister would be back from the window , seated at mahzeer's desk ; ;
in a minute , or five minutes , the business would be done ; ;
mahzeer would direct the prime minister's attention to something out the window and would guide him forward and then step to one side .
hoag would carry its sound to his grave .
how was he to suspect that an assassin had been lurking somewhere across the street waiting for just such a chance ? ?
where across the street ? ?
narrow four-story buildings ran the length of the block like books tightly packed on a shelf .
muller's would have to be one of the half dozen almost directly opposite .
if the angle of fire were too great the jutting buildings on either side would interfere .
he ran his eye along the roof copings ; ;
but dully glinting on the dark form were the buttons and badge of a policeman .
hoag crossed the narrow street , squeezing between parked cars to reach the sidewalk .
the room's occupants were still seated or they had been called into the hallway by an alarmed police captain .
he walked rapidly along the buildings scanning their facades : one was a club -- that was out ; ;
that left three , possibly four , one looking much like the next .
he quickly closed it again .
that made it doubtful as the hiding place of a man whose plans had to be made in advance .
on one wall was the brass front of a row of mailboxes ; ;
now what ? ?
this was senseless -- he had no idea what to look for .
all were empty except one , and that one was jammed with letters and magazines .
had muller made the same deduction ? ?
he opened the inner door ; ;
he climbed , as quickly as he could urge his body , up the two unbroken flights to the third floor , pulling himself along on a delicate balustrade , all that remained of the building's beauty .
now he was certain : the lock had not yielded to muller's collection of keys ; ;
it had been shut again , but the lock was broken ; ;
what was he to do now ? ?
he realized now he had more than half hoped he wouldn't find him -- that muller would not be here , that the attempt would be scheduled for somewhere beyond hoag's control .
he would have to climb back down to the street and signal a cop .
his thoughts were scattered by the sharp report of a rifle from the other side of the door .
he stood with his feet apart on a kitchen table he had dragged to the sill .
hoag stretched his left hand to the wall and fumbled for the switch : evil flourishes in the dark .
muller , nakedly exposed at the bright window like a deer pinned in a car's headlights , threw down the rifle and turned to jump from the table ; ;
a shot caught him and straightened him up in screaming pain ; ;
he was dead before his body made contact with the floor .
after captain docherty sent arleigh griffith for hoag he was able to complete his detailed inspection of the third floor and to receive a report from his man covering the floors above before griffith returned , buoyed up by a brief stop for another glass of champagne .
the safe is a repository for three dead flashlight batteries , a hundred and fifty unused left-hand fingerprint cards , a stack of unsold policemen's ball tickets from last year , and thirty-seven cents in coins and stamps .
it was more a matter of tact , and also it was none of killpath's goddam business .
he stared at the clerk who sat at a scarred and ancient fumed-oak desk stuffing envelopes .
the clerk wagged his head toward the captain's office .
the lieutenant's sparse brown hair was heavily pomaded , and as killpath raked the comb through it , it stuck together in thatches so that it looked like umbrella ribs clinging to his pink skull .
leave me alone , gun thought .
but leave me alone .
if you just leave me to hell alone , lieutenant .
gun waited for killpath to sit down behind the desk near the window .
the desk before him was in no better repair than the rest of the furniture crowded into the room , including wooden file cabinets with some of their pulls yanked off and a wardrobe stained with the roof seepage of countless seasons .
it was the posture which the men had come to recognize as that of killpath defying his ulcer .
gun waited .
finally , orville intoned through his hawk nose , `` we can't have people running in any time they please , sergeant '' .
`` running in , running out .
makes for confusion and congestion '' .
he was silent again , possibly listening to the sounds in the squadroom .
gun cleared his throat .
that's not getting all the juice out of the orange , now is it '' ? ?
then killpath smiled .
the day-watch platoon commander , lt. rinker , was calling out the beat assignments , but matson couldn't make the names mean anything .
`` do you have any idea who might have been in charge at the time '' ? ?
`` now , now , you're just guessing , sergeant '' .
`` what if i said nobody was here but a couple of patrolmen '' ? ?
he must have '' --
now that's not regulation , is it '' ? ?
`` but you didn't know a thing about it , did you '' ? ?
his foot slipped off the chair and he put it back again , frowning now .
gun told himself that the old bastard was a fool .
`` i was out in the district , sir '' .
so i have heard '' .
`` i might point out that your inability to report to my office this morning when you were instructed to do so has not ah limited my knowledge of your activities as you may have hoped '' .
a car pulled into the driveway outside the window .
but for some fool reason he couldn't remember which men he'd put on the transfer detail .
he sucked in his breath and kept quiet while killpath laid down the sheet again , wound the gold-wire stems of his glasses around his ears and then , eying the report as it lay before him on the desk , intoned , `` acting lieutenant gunnar matson one failed to see that the station keeper was properly relieved two absented himself throughout the entire watch without checking on the station's activities or the whereabouts of his section sergeants three permitted members of the homicide detail of the inspector's bureau to arrogate for their own convenience a patrolman who was thereby prevented from carrying on his proper assignment four failed to notify the station commander acting captain o. t. killpath of a homicide occurring in the district five frequented extralegal establishments known as after-hours spots for purposes of an unofficial and purportedly social nature and six '' -- he leaned back and peeled off his glasses `` -- failed to co-operate with the acting captain by returning promptly when so ordered .
killpath sailed the paper across the desk , but matson didn't pick it up or even glance at it .
`` i didn't think accacia knew so many big words , lieutenant '' .
`` patrolman accacia is an alert and conscientious law-enforcement officer .
`` negligence , hell '' ! !
`` sir .
it's too bad i didn't call you , and it's too bad i let schaeffer use accacia when he could have had a boy who'd be glad to learn something of homicide procedure .
`` i shouldn't like to have to write you up for insubordination as well as dereliction of duty '' .
he clamped his jaws to keep the fury from spilling out .
killpath leaned forward again , rocked comfortably with his arms still wrapped around one knee .
`` morning , lieutenant rinker '' .
i thought you hadn't come in yet '' .
he stood up , cocked his head and eyed gun coldly .
it had come as no great surprise to matson that the hot water in the showers didn't work , that loren severe had thrown up all over the stairs , or that some thieving bastard of a cop had walked off with his cigarettes .
now , as he passed the open counter that divided the assembly room from the business office , he nodded and said good night to the station keeper and his clerks , not stopping to hear the day-watch playback of his chewing out .
he just didn't want to talk about it .
because he'd be damned if he was going to be a mid-watch pencil-pusher just to please his ulcerated pro-tem captain .
he could pick up another pack on his way home , if he were going home .
not yet .
mission street at this hour was populated by a whole community that gun could not have seen on his tour of duty -- the neighborhood that had known urbano quintana by day .
sol phillips had purchased the alliance furniture mart seventeen years ago .
on the right window , at eye level , in smaller print but also in gold , was gonzalez , prop. , and under that , se habla espanol .
language was no problem anyway ; ;
aside from the fact that business was slow this time of year and his one salesgirl was not the most enterprising , mr. phillips had no worries at all , and he said as much to gun matson , who sat across from him in civilian clothes , on a jiffy-couch-a-bed , mauve velour , $79.89 nothing-down special ! !
you can't tell a customer how much it's going to cost him to refinance his payments before he even signs for a loan on the money down ! !
`` i put her in lamps .
`` why don't you just hire somebody else '' ? ?
he shrugged .
casey made some comment , but his mind was busy as he considered the man .
he was perhaps thirty-two , nicely set up , with light brown hair that had a pronounced wave .
an only child , he had done all the things that young men do who have been born to money and social position until his father double-crossed him by dying broke .
all this went through casey's mind in the first instant , but what held his interest was the fact that these two should be together at all .
she had grown up with young jenkins , and he had heard that they had been at the point of getting married at least twice .
and so , still wondering and a little perplexed , he grinned at the girl and spoke lightly to make sure that she would know he was kidding .
`` oh , i've known him quite a while '' .
`` haven't i , george '' ? ?
the girl's eyes were softly shining as she reached out and touched casey's hand .
we're going to get married .
casey kept his smile fixed , but some small inner disturbance was working on him as he thought again about needham , who was eight or ten years older than the girl .
none of this showed in his face , and he tried to keep his skepticism in hand .
`` i'll have to give it some thought '' , he said .
she made a face at him and then she laughed .
`` i'll get my references in order '' , needham said , and though he spoke with a smile , casey somehow got the idea that he was not particularly amused .
he stood up and touched the girl's arm .
if you're really serious about working on that story , i'd better take you home '' .
as he went out he told freddie the dinner was perfect , and when he got his hat and coat from nancy parks and put a fifty-cent piece in the slot , he told her to be sure that it went toward her dowry .
because his mind had been otherwise occupied for the past couple of hours , he did not think to look and see if jerry burton's car was still there .
only then , when his glance focused on the divan and saw that it was empty , did he remember his earlier problem .
then he was striding across the room , his thoughts confused but the worry building swiftly inside him as he snatched up the note .
look in the wastebasket .
the wastebasket stood near the wall next to the divan , and the instant casey picked it up he knew what had happened .
he put the basket down distastefully , muttering softly and thoroughly disgusted with himself and his plan that had seemed so foolproof .
for another second or two he gave in to the annoyance that was directed at himself ; ;
it no longer mattered that burton had outsmarted him .
and that gun was empty .
he considered them with brooding eyes , brows bunched as his brain grappled with the problem and tried to find some solution .
he put the shells on the table , as though he could no longer bear to hold them .
how can i find him ? ?
he tried to tell himself that maybe burton had sobered up enough to get some sense .
he thought of other possibilities , none of them satisfactory , and finally he began to think , to wonder if there was some way he could reach burton .
`` yeah '' , he said .
`` yeah '' .
casey heard the voice distinctly and he knew who it was , but it took him a while to make the mental readjustment and control the disturbance inside his head .
it still took him another few seconds to remember the job he had done for frank ackerly .
he demanded .
`` who says so '' ? ?
casey believed that much .
`` so '' ? ?
`` who says it's going to be published '' ? ?
under normal circumstances casey was a little fussy when people told him what to do with pictures he had taken .
right now , however , he was still too worried about jerry burton , and the gun that had no bullets , and the story burton had told him , to care too much about tony calenda .
`` look '' , he said .
i took it .
`` maybe you'd better tell the guy who hired you what i said '' .
`` all right '' , calenda said , his voice still quiet .
if that picture gets around and i find out you had anything to do with it , i'm going to send a couple of my boys around to see you '' .
`` just be sure to send your two best boys , tony '' .
as soon as he could think logically again he reached for the telephone directory and found jerry burton's home number .
he called the bar and grill where he had picked burton up that afternoon .
each time he got the same answer and in the end he gave up .
he had done all he could and that was that .
he , casey , had been scared for a while , but that had come mostly from the fact that he felt responsible .
he didn't .
so what ? ?
only then did he decide he didn't want one .
finally he went into the bedroom and sat down to take off his shoes .
when he snatched it up the voice that came to him was quick and urgent .
you don't know me but i know you .
if you hurry you might beat the headquarters boys '' .
for over the years he had received many such calls .
some telephoned because he had done them a favor in the past .
a few passed along a tip for the simple reason that they liked him and wanted to give him a break .
he was in his car with his camera and equipment bag in less than two minutes , and it took him only three more to reach the corner , a block from columbus avenue .
he did not bother with his radio -- there would be time for that later -- but as he scrambled out on the pavement he saw the filling station and the public telephone booth and knew instantly how he had been summoned .
slowly he pulled out the hand throttle until the boat was moving at little more than a crawl , and watched elaine rapidly spin from one station to another , tune in the null , then draw in a line on the chart .
make a 90 degree straight for shore '' .
`` now '' ? ?
`` pretty quick '' , she replied .
poet nodded , swung below and a moment later emerged from the forward hatch where he picked up the anchor .
`` reverse '' , elaine said , then peered through the loop of the rdf and waved to poet .
she cut the engines and slowly the cruiser swung around on the end of its lines until its bow was pointing into the wind and the cockpit faced toward the shore .
poet came up from below , wearing new bathing trunks .
nick wondered if elaine had bought them , but he said nothing .
it seemed as if they were all under a spell .
but instead of chatter there was a null , like on the radio direction finder .
they had all been laughing , joking , when suddenly the engine had failed .
no one had prayed .
the pilot had been good .
there had been tension in the plane during the silent descent ; ;
but in the plane there was a concrete reason for it .
yet tension existed .
it hung over them like a cloud , its arrival as sudden as a cloud skidding over the sun .
she threw back a cushion over one of the seats , unlocked a padlock on the chest beneath it , then presently straightened , holding a long knife and a wicked looking spear gun in her hand .
`` hydraulic '' ? ?
elaine nodded .
she kicked the locker lid shut and replaced the cushion .
`` and the deadliest '' , poet commented as he buckled on his tank harness .
nick asked , apprehensively , staring at the weapon .
a moment later , moving awkwardly because of the swimming fins , she picked up the gun , handed the knife to poet , then rolled off the transom of the boat , back first .
another moment and they were out of sight , leaving behind only a string of bubbles as a clue to their whereabouts .
they remained close together , their air trail wiggling like serpents traveling side by side .
clasping his hands behind his head , he stared at the blue sky .
alfredo certainly must have enjoyed being alone .
if elaine's uncle had stuck to this desire for aloneness , he probably would still be alive .
and graham wanted money probably to roam among the dice tables in las vegas .
but graham hadn't stumbled on it .
the small helicopter with its two steel skids churned offshore and nick raised up to watch it heading south .
a couple couldn't even find a secluded spot anywhere on a beach to neck nowadays without someone swooping down upon them .
off to the west a beautiful schooner slowly beat its way into the wind , headed on a tack toward san clemente .
the fisherman was right in the middle of the deep .
someday , geologists had warned , the land on both sides of these deeps would fall into the ocean and no more la jolla or redondo beach .
sometimes the fish exploded as they neared the surface because of the difference in pressure .
he couldn't skindive , he couldn't run a boat , except on the open sea .
strolling down to the galley , he lit the butane under the coffee pot and when the brew was heated , poured himself a cup and went up to the chartroom .
elaine and poet returned together , popping up over the transom almost like dolphins breaking water .
`` any luck '' ? ?
poet shook his head , sliding his face mask up on his forehead .
pulling off her face mask , she carefully placed the spear gun across the stern , then lifted her wet hair from her back and squeezed out the water .
`` any news '' ? ?
he tossed her a towel , then repeated the service for poet .
elaine shook her head as she slipped out of her harness , but poet nodded .
the fin on his foot caught on the moulding , throwing him off balance .
`` kee-reist '' ! !
nick's body became rigid .
poet ! !
poet a murderer ? ?
the sudden silence was too silent .
she had caught the implication of the oath .
and then nick knew that all of them knew elaine , himself and poet .
`` do you need a bandage '' ? ?
poet rubbed his arm .
`` hurts like hell for a second , then it disappears '' .
elaine turned and started toward the companionway .
nick sensed it .
springing like a cat , he leaped back , swooped up the spring gun and , whirling , pointed it toward the cabin .
the gun fired next to his ear with a vicious whoosh like the first stroke of an old steam engine .
the moment the sea closed over nick , some atavistic sense warned him that he would survive in this alien element only if he did not panic .
the wide flippers on poet's feet gave his legs incredible power , driving the two of them down into the water as they rolled over and over .
poet would escape , nick thought grimly , because he wore the apparatus which would keep him alive under water .
the rubber and glass face mask slipped from poet's forehead , bounced painlessly off nick's chin , then disappeared .
for a split second , nick relaxed his grip and poet's slippery body spun completely around before nick could stop him , holding him now from the rear .
suddenly poet stopped struggling and the two of them hung suspended in the water , not rising , not sinking .
a black , snake-like object swayed eerily in front of him , spewing bubbles from its flat cobra head .
the discovery struck nick like a blow .
at the same instant , he grabbed the loose , writhing hose with his other hand and bit down on the hard rubber mouthpiece .
at once the excruciating pain in his chest stopped and he was seized with a sudden , wild exultation .
relentlessly , nick held on , sucking on the hose , inhaling the air that belonged to poet .
harbor point sticks out into the ocean like the fat neck of a steamer clam .
it's at the far end of the county and the last time i came here was for a hit and run manslaughter -- about seven months ago .
a man mountain running to lard in his middle-age .
hardly expected the head of county homicide up for this murder .
rookie investigator last summer and now it's inspector jed .
proves a college education pays off '' .
`` i guess it helps '' , i said , paying no attention to his ribbing .
you're not only young but well , you don't even look like a police officer .
in my day the first requirement for a cop was to look like the law , big and tough .
when i say move , a guy moves '' ! !
who was the murdered woman mrs. buck '' ? ?
comfortably fixed .
came to the harbor as a bride and don't worry jed , this one is in the bag .
`` yeah , passed your road block as i drove in '' , i said , sitting on his polished desk .
`` okay , what happened '' ? ?
colored fellow named tim williams -- only hand she has working for her now .
never had no trouble with him before , thought he was a hard worker , hustling around to get a full week's work .
''
`` come on , inspector , look alive .
`` julia asks me to come out at once .
i got there at 9:47 a.m. , found her strangled .
no doubt about tim being the killer -- i have a witness .
told them i can handle this '' .
who's '' ? ?
`` who's your witness '' ? ?
probably the last of the original island indians .
swears she recognized his voice , that tim yelled , ' it's my money and i want it ' ! !
then she heard julia phone me .
and before you say it , nellie ain't near strong enough to have strangled julia .
another fact : tim's disappeared -- on the run .
guess you want to see the body -- have her up the street in doc abel's office '' .
being the harbor's sole doctor , abel was also its medical examiner .
doc abel was busy up front with some of his live patients .
powerful hands had killed her .
chief moore shook his big head , seemed lost in thought as he stared at the nude body .
i dropped the sheet , glanced at my watch .
still , i wanted to get this over with , had a lot of paper work waiting in my own office .
`` sure '' .
`` naw , we'll use mine '' , moore said , opening the door of a sleek white jaguar roadster .
got a heck of a buy on this , dirt cheap '' .
five racing minutes later we pulled into the driveway of this typical two-story house , and when the jaguar stopped i managed to swallow .
everything shouted gentleman farming , the kind of grandfather-father-to-son folding money the point is known for .
nellie harris wasn't old , she was ancient -- a tiny shriveled woman with a face like a tan prune .
she calmly repeated what moore had told me .
the old gal stared at me with her hard eyes , said , `` she didn't call .
i went up stairs and did the bath and her bedroom -- way i always do in the morning '' .
`` probably wages .
years ago when i asked her to put me in social security , so's i wouldn't have to be working now , miss julia threatened to fire me -- all because it would mean a few more dollars a year to her '' .
`` no sir .
i drummed on the kitchen table with my pencil .
`` her '' ? ?
`` i never see none .
`` was she on friendly terms with other members of her family '' ? ?
they had a son -- killed in the war '' .
there didn't seem to be any signs of a struggle .
`` i'll take you there .
okay , come on '' .
in late summer migratory workers lived five and six to a room in these .
mrs. tim williams was about 21 , with skin the color of bitter chocolate , and if you discounted the plain dress and worn slippers , she was startlingly pretty .
mrs. williams was both sullen and frightened .
she hadn't seen him since .
i asked .
listen , mr. inspector , no matter what anybody say , my tim didn't kill that woman ! !
he strong as a bull but gentle as a baby .
he never in his life took a hand to a woman or ''
`` does your husband have a car '' ? ?
`` got us an old station wagon .
i asked a silly question : `` you've no idea where your husband could be , now '' ? ?
i knew she was lying .
moore said , `` come on , jed , i have to get to my men '' .
he'll get a fair trial .
`` yes .
we made it back to the harbor in less than four minutes .
that jaguar could really barrel along .
chief moore said , `` if i don't see you when i return , see you for certain at my road block , inspector '' .
lighting my pipe , i took a walk .
even now , there were several slick cruisers tied to the dock , an ocean-going yawl anchored inside the breakwater .
it wasn't a new boat , about five years old , but fitted with fishing outriggers and chairs .
he said , `` you bet .
i dropped into the doctor's office , picked up my forms .
if she moved gracefully , she was clumsy at it .
she was ' hiding ' on the floor of the back seat , the soft curves of her back and hips -- rousing lines .
i waited a few minutes and she sat up .
she mumbled , `` i just know that chief moore is out to kill my tim '' ! !
i never saw him so anxious before '' , i said , lighting my pipe and offering her a cigarette .
you know where tim is , don't you , mrs. williams '' ? ?
didn't answer .
i want you to go to pearson city and find out why -- first-hand stuff for your modern crime series .
go to the same hotel and occupy the same suite -- 1105 '' .
`` why not ? ?
besides , the number of the suite hasn't been published in any newspaper .
`` still , they may not want to rent it '' .
once inside , keep your eyes open '' ! !
alec was growing more and more skeptical .
the hotel people will have scoured and vacuumed it .
`` there's always a chance they may have overlooked something '' , returned the chief .
interview the bellboy and chambermaid who waited on beauclerk .
soak up local color .
try to imagine you're going to be murdered yourself -- between eleven p.m. and one a.m. the night you arrive '' .
`` cheerful way to spend an evening '' ! !
`` suppose the murderer should return to the scene of the crime '' ! !
he spoke softly .
after all , the murderer is still at large .
on the train alec refreshed his memory of the beauclerk case by reading teletype flimsies -- spot-news stories about the crime sent out by the pearson city star , a member of the syndicate press .
two weeks ago she had gone west to pearson city .
so did the firm of lawyers who had got her the divorce , kimball and stacy .
she telephoned the junior partner of her law firm , martin stacy , and asked him to call at her hotel that evening .
according to stacy , she told him she was planning to remarry and she wanted him to ask forbes for the lump sum .
stacy said he left her suite at nine forty-five p.m. .
no one saw stacy leave .
next morning she was found dead in her suite with a bullet from a
according to the medical examiner , she was shot between eleven p.m. and one a.m. .
so was the gun .
forbes had motive and stacy had opportunity .
the hotel westmore proved to be one of the older hotels in pearson city , and definitely second-rate .
he studied the night clerk as a man measures an adversary .
`` certainly , sir '' .
`` do you recall the number '' ? ?
the clerk's smile congealed .
alec's glance went to a chart of guest names and room numbers hanging on the wall behind the clerk .
the clerk's glance followed alec's .
`` larger and more comfortable .
alec's face was dark , blunt , and sulky .
he was looking dangerous now .
`` anything wrong with the plumbing in 1105 '' ? ?
two women , who had been chattering like parrots , were struck dumb .
even the bellboys on their bench were listening .
`` of course not '' ! !
`` no '' ! !
`` it's just that -- well , 1105 is being redecorated '' .
alec leaned on the desk , holding the clerk's eyes with his .
`` there might be a story in it '' .
`` i'm with the syndicated press , feature service .
it was blackmail and the clerk knew it .
`` front ! !
the stillness persisted as alec followed a bellboy across the lobby to the elevator .
he wished it had not been necessary to announce the number of his suite quite so publicly .
a thick , crimson carpet muffled every footfall .
it was a neat setup for murder .
the room was dark but a neon sign flashed and faded beyond the window .
hastily the boy switched on a ceiling light .
there was no hint of a violent struggle now .
the blue rug was suspiciously bright and new .
table covers and towels were clean , ashtrays empty and supplied with fresh matches .
alec played the part of an innocent tourist .
`` n-no '' .
`` afraid you'll lose your job if you don't keep your mouth shut '' ? ?
`` listen , mister .
`` were you on duty here two weeks ago '' ? ?
then , `` i'm not talking .
he was in a hurry to get out of the room .
alone , alec examined the doors .
alec locked the hall door and put the key with his watch on the bedside table .
as he ranged his belongings on the bureau he noticed a film of white dust on the dark surface of the wood beyond the linen cover .
women didn't use white face powder nowadays , he recalled .
alec glanced into the bathroom .
it seemed clean now , but alec decided against a bath .
in the darkness he could see the rosy reflection of the neon sign on the wall opposite the window .
in less than five minutes alec was asleep .
yet suddenly he was wide-awake .
he lay still , listening to the silence , watching the light .
according to the medical examiner she was shot between eleven p.m. and one a.m. .
his heart seemed to swell and knock against the wall of his chest .
he let his eyelids droop and breathed heavily , feigning sleep .
a monstrous shadow fell across the illuminated wall , distorted and indefinable .
when the neon sign flashed on , the shadow was still there .
that meant that something between the light and its reflection on the wall was moving closer to the source of the light -- in this case , the window .
the bedsprings betrayed him with a creak .
someone had moved beyond the range of the light from the window .
before he could snap it on , a stinging blow caught him in the ribs .
there was a thick , squashy crack of fist on flesh .
he put everything he had into the next and aimed down where the stomach ought to be .
there was a grunt , curiously inarticulate , like that of an animal in pain .
alec waited a moment , on guard .
again he groped for the light switch .
on the bare floorboards a man lay face down .
alec turned him over and discovered a round , lumpy face with narrow , slanting eyes -- a primitive tartar face from russia or the balkans .
there was a slight bulge under the left armpit -- a shoulder holster .
he was familiar with this type .
but he was surprised to meet it here .
a professional gunman would not have killed her with a weapon of such small caliber as a
nor would he choose a respectable hotel as the scene for a killing when it would be so much safer to take his victim for a one-way ride on a lonely country road .
he opened his eyes .
demanded alec .
his eyes were dazed .
`` did you kill diana beauclerk '' ? ?
`` oh , come on , snap out of it ! !
the silence was getting on alec's nerves .
only that curious , animal grunting alec had heard during their fight .
the man opened his mouth wider .
alec leaned forward to look .
in good time i shall get to the distressing actuality , to red mciver and handley walker , to murder and sudden death .
it was in 1814 that abraham wharf and his sister sat by a meager fire in their house on dogtown common , a desolate place even then .
`` sister '' , said he `` do you think people who commit suicide go to heaven '' ? ?
without a tremor , `` god forbid '' ! !
what has this to do with the present ? ?
you must know what gets into people , even such as red and handley , before you can tell what comes out of them .
that's why i beg you not to forget him .
red and handley , god help them , knew the old dogtown lore ; ;
and isn't it true that you get a deeper perception about a man and his motives when you know what it is he knows ? ?
you know the facts ; ;
you want from me the story , but a story is about ' why ' and then , perhaps , about how .
yesterday morning .
there is an inwardness and a luster to old furniture ( look at that mahogany highboy behind you ) which has a provocative emanation , if i may say so .
even people .
when you hold the spirit of a thing , then somehow you know the truth -- you know a fake antique from the real thing .
now , dogtown is one of those places that creeps into the marrow as worms get into old wood , under the veneer .
there's a different hall-mark on them .
just think of old granther stannard who pulled the teeth of dark younger ( her real name was dorcas ) , and because he bungled the job and left two protruding tusks she put such a hex on him that he thought his legs were made of glass .
today dogtown is the only deserted village in all new england that i know of .
but now it's the most lost and tortured place in the world .
scientists say it is the last spewings of a great glacier , but one rather feels that only a malevolent giant could have piled up those crouching monsters of granite which still seem to preserve a sort of suspended , ominous life in them .
it's perhaps a mile from here where we sit .
( i myself have identified about sixty sites , from the old maps and registers .
) even i can remember nothing but ruined cellars and tumbled pillars , and nobody has lived there in the memory of any living man .
that's your setting , and a sinister one .
it accounts for so many things .
red lived at lanesville , and from his house he could be up on the common in a half hour's brisk walk ; ;
i'd often find one or other of them up around dogtown sketching .
they are ? ?
) well , anyhow , dogtown common is so much off the beaten track nowadays that only sunday picnickers still stray up there , from time to time .
dead , dead as a brass door nail , and i sometimes feel like the sexton , for i'm about the last to be even interested .
as i said , they were both painters .
they married cousins , anta and freya norberg .
pretty girls among them , with blonde hair and pert faces .
and it was because of an old norberg inheritance that i got to understand them all so well .
oh , yes , i'm quite sure it's important , because of the beech pasture .
why , that's what gave me the feeling , gave me as-it-were the spirit , the demoniac , evil spirit of this whole affair .
no , i don't hold with those who live entirely among dead things .
but you've got to know both .
as i was saying , i've known all about the old records , including the old norberg deed .
about five years ago , handley came to ask me if he could see the tattered register .
he's always like that , in spite of being a big man .
) a sensual man , but very courteous , some would say slick .
too many outside manners , to my taste .
a real gentleman , i feel , would do neither .
the next week , cousin red wandered in as casually , but curt and untidy .
he too asked to see the same page .
`` by god , it's that damn handley , the sneak '' ! !
fortunately we were alone in the building -- so few people nowadays are interested even in their own past or in the lovely craft of other days -- for they began to abuse each other in the foulest language .
they actually bristled .
violent men both .
but for my presence , they would have been at each others' throats .
the beech pasture had suddenly become valuable .
both men knew it was in the norberg family holdings , but to which of the cousins did it belong , anta or freya ? ?
it began with a preamble , of course .
after the usual honorable sirs , it went on to say that there had been set off to the widow one full third part of the real estate of the deceased salu norberg , one lower room , on the western side , privileges to the well and bake-oven and to one third of the cellar ( i can show you the cellar when we go up ) , also one cow right , and lastly they set off to the widow her own land that she brought with her as dower , namely the beech pasture .
i wish you could have seen the crests fall on these two sparring coxcombs when i told them that obviously the pasture belonged to their wives jointly .
a disturbing picture of bad blood , to be further heightened with illicit if buccolic colors , for on a subsequent day i saw handley escorting anta , red's wife , up on dogtown common .
not that i intentionally go unperceived , but the boulders up there are very high and i am a small woman .
paint ! !
i suppose handley knew it .
you may say this has little pertinence , but , gentlemen , remember that all this prepared my mind , alerted my intelligence .
you would call these the motives of crime .
yet with all this knowledge i had nothing of substance to unravel our case , as you would call it , till yesterday .
not much to shoot , but there are a few pheasant .
any more than they have the sense to eat mussels .
oh yes , he'd talked about doing so .
anta , his wife , never seemed to mind .
anyhow , i wasn't surprised , early that morning , to see handley himself crossing from dogtown common road to the back road .
it would have been a good excuse for his being there at all .
that's what the man had said .
he had no ready answer , as much from surprise as from the fit of coughing .
but his new-found buddy had matched him drink for drink until he lost count , and the man's eyes were still clear .
eyes that were clear , but also bright with a strange intensity , a sort of cold fire burning behind them .
no , the man was not drunk
but , of course , he remembered now .
the stranger , his head seemingly sunk in thought , started to cross the street against the light just as a huge moving van roared through the intersection .
his shout had been involuntary , something anybody might have done without thinking , on the spur of the moment .
actually , he regretted having opened his mouth when the truck came to a stop and the angry driver jumped down from the cab and walked back toward them .
so the driver started to curse at both of them as if they had been in a plot together to ruin his safe-driving record .
very suddenly , the driver stopped swearing at them , turned on his heel and went back to his truck .
now he recalled it very clearly , and wondered what the truck driver had seen in those eyes to make him back off .
when the light went their way , they went on across the street .
phil usually went alone and kept to himself , sitting in a corner and passing the time by nursing his favorite grudges .
phil was like that .
he really didn't take the offer seriously , but he began to feel uneasy .
haney managed a weak laugh .
thanks anyhow '' .
`` i think you aren't taking me seriously , phil .
and everybody has some kind of grudge .
i believe in returning favors .
it won't cost you a cent , phil .
phil rubbed his forehead wearily .
maybe it would be better to humor the guy and then make an exit .
`` all right '' , he conceded finally , `` if you must know , i don't get along with the landlord .
he says the neighbors complain , but i don't believe it .
the man closed his eyes and nodded .
`` fine .
it will take a little time .
you see , i always make it look like an accident .
in that way there's no trouble for the customer '' .
`` customer '' ? ?
`` it's my line of work '' , he said
haney watched the small but wiry man slip out the door quickly and silently , and felt relieved to see that nobody else seemed to notice his departure .
some time before midnight he returned to his apartment and hit the sack , putting the whole incident out of mind before he fell asleep .
the hangover in turn reminded him of his conversation with the weirdy , and he groaned .
phil shrugged and ignored him .
by wednesday the landlord was still alive .
coming home from work , he was startled to see a police car parked in front of the apartment building .
his spine crawled with a foreboding premonition as he asked one of his fellow tenants what had happened .
late that afternoon , it seemed , he had fallen off the roof while on some obscure errand or inspection .
nobody witnessed the fall -- just the sickening impact when his body smashed on the pavement just outside the basement delivery entrance .
he muttered something about how terrible it was , and walked with deliberate slowness to the elevator .
after a while he began to feel better about it , especially when no one bothered to ask any questions .
still later , he finally convinced himself that it was an accident -- just a coincidence .
haney went to bed , happy that at least he was rid of that lousy landlord .
really , he said to himself , nobody kills a man just as a favor ! !
the stranger's eyes were large and sad , as if phil haney had hurt his feelings .
however , haney knew it was not a dream .
it was the same bar , and it was two weeks later -- saturday night , when he had an excuse to drink heavier than usual .
he was enjoying the weekly ritual of washing down his pet grievance with bourbon slightly moistened with water .
he had already quite forgotten about him .
his real grievance was lolly .
he looked up with bloodshot eyes and beheld the stranger sitting across the table , smiling a secret smile at him , as if they were fellow conspirators .
pete ? ?
the man was uncanny , like a shadow , and made as much noise as a shadow .
he began to wish that he hadn't shouted that other evening when the truck bore down through the crossing .
he'd have to start going to some of the other places again .
he made the mistake of answering in an offhand way , and instantly realized that his skepticism must have showed in his face or voice .
haney didn't want to encourage his company , but felt he ought to buy him a drink anyhow , to prevent possible trouble .
the guy sulked over his drink , obviously upset by haney's lack of appreciation .
in time , and two drinks later , he was complaining bitterly about his wife , he was on the subject for ten minutes or so when he noticed the renewed interest in his listener -- it showed in the alert face and the suddenly bright eyes .
`` but why pay her bills ? ?
haney scowled .
`` then she'd get half of everything i have .
i'd have to sell out my business to pay her off with her share .
pete nodded understandingly .
now i see .
i came out here to retire .
you should have told me about her before '' .
then a wild thought ran circles through his clouded brain .
a retired professional killer if he was just a nut , no harm was done .
he felt very cunning , very proud of himself as he played on the other man's soft spot .
`` but it's just that -- well , you know .
after all , i didn't know you , pete .
he shrugged casually .
his eyes burned feverishly .
`` of course it looked like an accident .
let me prove it , phil .
he waited eagerly .
about halfway back pops groped against a wall and stopped , pulled away two loosely nailed wide boards at one end , and went through .
`` floor level's about three feet down , so don't fall '' .
he said , `` jist stay still .
jist stay where you are '' .
a moment later he struck a match and lighted a candle , and i could see .
i looked back over my shoulder while i went to join him ; ;
i took the pint bottle from my pocket and handed it over as i sat down beside him on the spread blanket .
he drank and handed it back .
`` listen , i got a buddy i travel with , real nice guy named larry .
could he join the party and sleep here tonight too ? ?
he hesitated a second , looking at the bottle , before he said `` sure-sure '' , and i reassured him .
you can work on this one while i'm gone , kill it if you want '' .
his `` sure-sure '' was enthusiastic this time .
`` git over by the window while there's light , an' i'll put th' candle out .
charlie was waiting , leaning against a building front .
`` but we got to go back to fifth and get another bottle or two .
on the way i gave him the scoop .
i introduced my friend larry to pops and we made ourselves comfortable .
i was reminded , amusedly , by a poem of kenneth patchen's called the murder of two men by a young kid wearing lemon colored gloves , which patchen himself read on a record against jazz background .
and a blaring final chord from the jazz group .
but we could wait all right ; ;
i said , `` wait wait '' to charlie and he grinned , digging the reference .
the second bottle passed a few times .
he seemed as drunk as when i'd first talked to him , but no drunker .
if we'd really been trying to get him dead drunk we'd have had to go out for more wine .
i said , `` wait '' , and handed the bottle to pops for his final drink .
it was a lead pipe cinch .
out cold , if not dead ; ;
i reached my hand toward him to put it inside his shirt to feel for a heartbeat , but charlie said `` wait '' ! !
he was holding the piece of lead pipe out to me .
i gauged that blow to be borderline .
you hit again about twice that hard before we know whether he's dead or not .
dig '' ? ?
it made sense .
the thunk was louder , anyway , and i thought i heard bone crack .
that did it , if mine didn't .
all right , now i'll give you a hand '' .
i nodded to charlie .
we did that .
charlie asked me .
`` what do you feel '' ? ?
well maybe i'm exaggerating .
now , first question : the bottles .
`` take them '' , i said .
here's the picture we want to leave for the fuzz -- whenever the body gets found .
if they'd been working on a bottle or a jug he'd have taken it with him '' .
and he'd have taken the weapon with him too , so we take that .
`` i've been careful about fingerprints .
`` same .
same goes for the rough cement of the ledge .
they find dead winos every day , maybe they won't even autopsy him for the cause of death '' .
we've got to assume they'll decide he was murdered and we've got to keep the picture consistent .
we did that and found a dirty handkerchief , some matches and fourteen cents in change .
we discussed the candle and decided the hypothetical other bum would have left it burning to light his way to the window and because he'd have no reason to blow it out .
a fire wouldn't have mattered except that it would cause pops to be found sooner .
we went once more over every point , then triple-checked .
in fact , nobody saw us , cop or citizen .
which , if it matters , was one a.m. .
it had gone like clockwork .
how safe is too safe ? ?
an hour later we were back in my unpadded pad , killing what had been left of the second pint .
also our plans for me to commit charlie's murder and for him to commit mine .
we shook hands on it .
i'd tell him everything i'd learned about seaton's habits and habitat , and he'd tell me the score on radic .
charlie would get there early because he had the key .
i was dead tired and slept soundly , as far as i know dreamlessly .
charlie had brought food and we'd decided on no drinks .
i talked first , telling him everything i knew about seaton and his house and domestic arrangements .
he memorized them thoroughly and then we tore them into tiny pieces and flushed them down .
he'd been there several times , back when , while he and radic had been friends , or at least not enemies .
it was not quite six o'clock when we finished and charlie said , `` well , i guess that's it .
or would you rather deal a hand of show-down poker or play a game of gin rummy , or what '' ? ?
`` one thing we haven't discussed , expense money .
and if you're as flat broke as i am , i think we'll have to take the added risk of knocking over a filling station or something before we split for one of us to set up an alibi while the other does his dirty work '' .
`` all right , i'll come clean .
a couple of hundred .
then , after i'm back , another fifty so you can put some mileage on yourself and have a solid alibi somewhere while i take care of your seat cover boy '' .
i took a deep breath , and the plunge .
you'd have to wait till seaton's back from mexico city and also while i set it up with doris to have her have an alibi for d-night .
but your friend manny can go any time '' .
`` i was hoping you'd say that , willy .
well -- in that case , i take off tomorrow morning for frisco .
now that he knew himself to be self he was free to grok ever closer to his brothers , merge without let .
mike stopped to cherish all his brother selves , the many threes-fulfilled on mars , corporate and discorporate , the precious few on earth -- the unknown powers of three on earth that would be his to merge with and cherish now that at last long waiting he grokked and cherished himself .
there was much to grok , loose ends to puzzle over and fit into his growing -- all that he had seen and heard and been at the archangel foster tabernacle ( not just cusp when he and digby had come face to face alone ) why bishop senator boone made him warily uneasy , how miss dawn ardent tasted like a water brother when she was not , the smell of goodness he had incompletely grokked in the jumping up and down and wailing --
he studied them , compared them with what he had been taught as a nestling , struggling to bridge between languages , the one he thought with and the one he was learning to think in .
there was no martian concept to match it -- unless one took `` church '' and `` worship '' and `` god '' and `` congregation '' and many other words and equated them to the totality of the only world he had known during growing-waiting then forced the concept back into english in that phrase which had been rejected ( by each differently ) by jubal , by mahmoud , by digby .
he was closer to understanding it in english now , although it could never have the inevitability of the martian concept it stood for .
repeating it like a student telling himself that the jewel is in the lotus he sank into nirvana .
he had been weary ; ;
he felt a puppyish need for company as strong as his earlier necessity for quiet .
`` hi '' ! !
hello , mike .
`` i feel fine ! !
`` asleep .
`` oh '' .
he wanted to explain his new grokking .
are you hungry '' ? ?
`` come on , there's some cold chicken and we'll see what else '' .
it's plenty warm '' .
`` warm enough to swim -- real indian summer .
`` don't bother '' , mike answered .
he could see in almost total darkness .
his foster parents had taught him to see .
he was considerate of their weakness , once he learned of it .
in the meantime he was pleased with the warm night and the still more pleasing company of his water brother .
i'll switch on the underwater lights .
`` fine '' .
it was a goodness , beauty .
`` mike , there's mars .
or antares '' ? ?
`` mike ? ?
he hesitated ; ;
`` on the side toward the horizon -- the southern hemisphere -- it is spring ; ;
`` ' taught to grow ' '' ? ?
`` larry teaches plants to grow .
but my people -- martians , i mean ; ;
in the other hemisphere it is growing colder and nymphs , those who stayed alive through the summer , are being brought into nests for quickening and more growing '' .
`` of the humans we left at the equator , one has discorporated and the others are sad '' .
mike had not heard it ; ;
`` they should not be sad .
the old ones have cherished him '' .
`` yes .
but he was homesick '' .
mike do you ever get homesick ? ?
`` at first i was homesick '' , he answered .
he rolled toward her and took her in his arms .
i grok i shall never be lonely again '' .
presently his water brother said breathlessly .
that was almost worse than the first time '' .
`` yes .
kiss me again '' .
is that -- i mean , ' do you know ' '' --
it is for growing closer .
`` well i've been ready a long time -- goodness , we all have , but never mind , dear ; ;
i'll help '' .
her answer was not in words .
oh ! !
`` we grok god '' .
on mars humans were building pressure domes for the male and female party that would arrive by next ship .
part of the time saved was spent on a preliminary estimate for a long-distance plan to free bound oxygen in the sands of mars to make the planet more friendly to future human generations .
time was not yet .
on earth elections continued and a very advanced poet published a limited edition of verse consisting entirely of punctuation marks and spaces ; ;
a colossal campaign opened to sell more sexual organs of plants and mrs. joseph ( `` shadow of greatness '' ) douglas was quoted as saying : `` i would no more sit down without flowers on my table than without serviettes '' .
his chelas were required to assume the matsyendra posture dressed in hand-woven diapers while he read aloud from rig-veda and an assistant guru examined their purses in another room -- nothing was stolen ; ;
the president of the united states proclaimed the first sunday in november as `` national grandmothers' day '' and urged america to say it with flowers .
fosterite bishops , after secret conclave , announced the church's second major miracle : supreme bishop digby had been translated bodily to heaven and spot-promoted to archangel , ranking with-but-after archangel foster .
l'unita and hoy published identical denunciations of short's elevation , l'osservatore romano and the christian science monitor ignored it , times of india snickered at it , and the manchester guardian simply reported it -- the fosterites in england were few but extremely militant .
the man from mars had interrupted him with his work half finished -- and that stupid jackass short was certain to louse it up .
eternity is no time for recriminations .
afterwards you did well enough .
same as with the popes .
check with one of them , go ahead -- there's no professional jealousy here '' .
foster shook his halo .
you shouldn't have tried to .
but , i'm telling you , it'll be turned down -- you don't understand the system yet .
they run their show their way -- the universe has variety , something for everybody -- a fact you field workers often miss '' .
`` i held still for the same thing , didn't i ? ?
now look , there's work to be done and lots of it .
if you need a day off to calm down , duck over to the muslim paradise and take it .
the sooner you act like an angel the quicker you'll feel angelic .
digby heaved a deep ethereal sigh .
where do i start '' ? ?
if mike had had a finger in it , he had gotten away with it -- and what happened to supreme bishops worried jubal not at all as long as he wasn't bothered .
jubal deduced what had happened but did not know with whom -- and didn't want to inquire .
anyhow , it was high time the boy was salted .
this continued most of the week following that ill-starred trip to church , during which period mike stayed in his room and usually in a trance so deep that jubal would have pronounced him dead had he not seen it before .
the girls seemed to spend half their time tiptoeing in `` to see if mike was all right '' and they were too preoccupied to cook , much less be secretaries .
absent-minded , subject to unexplained tears jubal would have bet his life that if anne were to witness the second coming , she would memorize date , time , personae , events , and barometric pressure without batting her calm blue eyes .
however , we sent a third vessel out , a much smaller and faster one than the first two .
that is all i can tell you about them .
`` that it had found a planet on which human beings could live and which was already inhabited by sentient beings '' ! !
macneff stopped pacing to stare at hal with his pale blue eyes .
he said sharply .
`` but it was inevitable ! !
i believe it was on page 573 '' ! !
how could they not ? ?
besides , they were not the only impressions .
he was a good impresser , that pornsen .
is ! !
he was my gapt in the creche .
he is now my block gapt .
swiftly , came the revulsion , the protest .
if i get a low m. r. , i do so because i want it that way or my dark self does .
so , forgive me , sigmen , for the contrary-to-reality thoughts ! !
`` but did the expedition find any records of the forerunner having been on this planet ? ?
`` no '' , said macneff .
the expedition was under orders to make a swift survey of conditions and then to return to earth .
if you volunteer , you will be told where you're going after the ship leaves .
`` you need a linguist '' ? ?
`` the ship is huge '' , said macneff , `` but the number of military men and specialists we are taking limits the linguists to one .
unfortunately ''
then , he said , `` unfortunately , only one lamechian linguist exists , and he is too old for this expedition .
`` a thousand pardons '' , said hal .
i am married '' .
`` there will be no women aboard the gabriel .
hal gasped , and he said , `` a divorce '' ? ?
but , from our reading of the western talmud , we urielites believe that the forerunner , knowing this situation would arise , made reference to and provision for divorce .
naturally , he couched the provision in obscure language .
`` i volunteer '' , said hal .
six months later , hal yarrow stood in the observation dome of the gabriel and watched the ball of earth dwindle above him .
hal , the linguist , saw the glittering discs and necklaces in terms of the languages spoken therein .
southern china , all of southeast asia , southern india and ceylon , these states of the malay federation spoke bazaar .
his mind turned the globe swiftly for him , and he visualized africa , which used swahili south of the sahara sea .
in southern europe , between the israeli republics and the icelandic-speaking peoples of northern europe , was a thin but long stretch of territory called march .
neither nation would give up their claim on it , yet neither wished to make any move that might lead to a second apocalyptic war .
its citizens spoke all of the world's surviving tongues , plus a new one called lingo , a pidgin whose vocabulary was derived from the other six and whose syntax was so simple it could be contained on half a sheet of paper .
here the peoples spoke the tongue of iceland because that island had gotten the jump on the hawaiian-americans who were busy resettling north america and the western half of south america after the apocalyptic war .
hal knew that when that side of earth rotated into the night zone , sigmen city would blaze out into space .
but mary would soon no longer be living there , for she would be notified in a few days that her husband had died in an accident while on a flight to tahiti .
her friends and professional associates would sympathize with her , not because she had lost a beloved husband , but because she had been married to a man who thought unrealistically .
there was no such thing as an `` accident '' .
and , therefore , being in disgrace , they would not be cremated and their ashes flung to the winds in public ceremony .
hal felt sorry for mary ; ;
yet , he told himself , this was the best way .
their mutual torture would be over .
she would have a year in which to make up her mind , to choose a mate from a list selected by her gapt .
perhaps .
mary was as frozen below the navel as he .
the gapt .
he would no longer have to see that fat face , hear that whining voice
said the whining voice .
there was the squat loose-jowled man , smiling lopsidedly up at him .
`` i had no idea that you , too , would be on this glorious voyage .
we seem to be bound by love ; ;
love to you , my ward '' .
`` how wonderful to see your cherished self .
5
meanwhile , all the personnel except those few needed to carry out the performance of the ship , went into the suspensor .
some time later , after a check had been made of all automatic equipment , the crew would join the others .
upon reaching the desired speed , the automatic equipment would cut off the drive , and the silent but not empty vessel would hurl towards the star which was its journey's end .
again , a force too strong for unfrozen bodies to endure would be applied .
and the crew would be automatically brought out of their suspended animation .
and , in the half-year left before reaching their destination , the men would carry out whatever preparations were needed .
he had to study the recordings of the language of the chief nation of ozagen , siddo .
the expedition that had discovered ozagen had succeeded in correlating two thousand siddo words with an equal number of american words .
and , as hal found out , obviously mistaken in many cases .
his duty was to write a school text and to teach the entire personnel of the gabriel how to speak ozagen .
moreover , even getting this across would be difficult .
the sounds made by these organs were , therefore , dissimilar .
another obstacle was the grammatical construction of siddo .
instead of inflecting a verb or using an unattached particle to indicate the past or future , siddo used an entirely different word .
the same use of an entirely different word applied for all the other tenses .
fortunately , gender was inflected , though the expression of it would be difficult for anybody not born in siddo .
all the other parts of speech : nouns , pronouns , adjectives , adverbs , and conjunctions operated under the same system as the verbs .
no doubt the angels could do that kind of thing as fast as any computer .
this is not wholly a reasoning process -- a computer cannot do it all -- and even in an angel it takes time .
)
he had already become used to hesperus' snapping back answers to questions almost before jack could get them asked .
the dice were cast .
`` we misjudged you '' , he said slowly .
of course we have before us the example of the great races at the galactic center ; ;
but they have survived for long periods as races , whereas you are young .
`` for now , it is clear that we were in the wrong .
hesperus , you may speak '' .
`` nevertheless , you were its agent .
`` it's a kind of agreement in which each party gives something to the other '' , jack said .
his heart , he discovered , was pounding .
between individuals , this process is called bargaining .
and the major part of my mission to your nest is to make a treaty between your race and mine .
`` strange '' , gabriel said .
though it might be that we would have much to give you , you have nothing to give us '' .
another pause ; ;
`` then it is a matter of pleasure ; ;
of a more alive time .
but you should understand , jack , that hesperus and lucifer are not long out of the nursery .
this explained a great deal .
we will gladly entertain your young and give them proper living quarters , in return for their help in running our fusion reactors .
`` but this simply requires that they behave in accordance with the dictates of their own natures , and respect yours in turn .
jack felt a wave of complete elation , but in a second it had vanished without a trace .
the angels in turn would exercise similar restraints in respect for the natural preferences and natures of the earthmen -- but they had no faintest notion of man's perverse habit of passing and enforcing laws which were contrary to his own preferences and violations of his nature .
nothing less would serve .
furthermore , even the highly trained law clerk who was a part of jack's total make-up could not understand how the principle could ever be codified .
yet there was some precedent for it .
but the united states and the union of soviet socialist republics nevertheless did eventually agree on an atomic bomb test ban , and a sort of provisional acceptance of each other's good intentions on this limited question .
suspicion between member states still existed , but it was of about the same low order of virulence as the twentieth-century rivalry between arizona and california over water supplies .
the trouble with them was that they almost never worked , and in fact an agreement `` in principle '' historically turned out to be a sure sign that neither party really wanted the quarrel settled .
there was no question in jack's mind of the good faith on one side , at least .
it was worth trying .
it would be at once the most tentative and most final treaty that earth had ever signed .
but there was no small way to handle this one .
but he was too late .
for a moment he could make no sense at all of what he saw .
gradually , he realized that the pentagon of angel elders had vanished , and that the ritual learning dance of the nursery had been broken up .
`` hesperus ! !
what's happened '' ? ?
they are on their way here '' .
i don't see them .
`` you can't see them yet , jack .
jack scanned the skies , the boards , and the skies again .
no -- there was a tiny pip on the radar ; ;
if that was the skiff , it was making unprecedented speed .
through the telescope , jack could see that both spacesuits were still attached to it .
it was a startling , almost numenous sight ; ;
the skiff was not heading for the nursery , however .
and there would be no chance of signaling them -- without the nernst generator jack could not send a call powerful enough to get through all the static , and by the time he could rebuild his fusion power the skiff would be gone .
the sail , ragged though it was , still had enough surface to catch some of the ocean of power being poured out from the nursery stars .
but where was it going ? ?
there was only one possible answer , but jack's horrified mind refused to believe it until he had fed the radar plots of the skiff's course into the computer .
the skiff was headed for the very center of the nebula -- toward that place which , jack knew now , could hold nothing less important than the very core of the angel's life and religion .
it was equally clear that as of this moment , the treaty was off .
langer would have to be headed off , whether he knew where he was going or not .
after all , he had had the same set of facts as jack had had to work from , and he was an almost frighteningly observant man .
had he decided , perhaps , that the center of the cloud was a center of government , instead of a center of life and faith '' ? ?
if it was intentional , it was now also unnecessary ; ;
jack crawled under the boards and restored the six feet of lead line he had excised from the nernst generator switch .
he had to have fusion power to catch up with the skiff , and he had to have it fast .
`` hesperus '' ? ?
`` i'm going to turn my generator back on , as i promised to do .
first i've got to intercept my brothers before they get any deeper into trouble .
i know it's not part of the bargain , and your elders might not like it '' .
`` as for my elders , they have already admitted that they were wrong .
therefore of course i will help '' .
without an instant's transition , the green light that meant full fusion power winked on the board .
of course .
from here on out , the ariadne was going to be hotter than any space cruiser man had ever dreamed of .
`` hesperus , don't use this t-tau vector trick of yours , please .
he rubbed his eyes sleepily with one huge paw .
`` nothing wrong with me that couldn't be cured '' , nogol said .
he had been explaining all during the trip what he needed to make him feel like himself .
`` ekstrohm '' ? ?
`` okay '' .
a range of bluffs hugged the horizon , the color of decaying moss .
that cold , empty sky was full of fire and light .
this fiery swath was actually only a belt of minor planets , almost like the asteroid belt in the original solar system .
but to the infuriation of scientists , for no known reason not all of them did .
they lay months away from the nearest earth star by jump drive , and no one knew what they were good for , although it was felt that they would probably be good for something if it could only be discovered -- much like the continent of antarctica in ancient history .
ryan asked .
`` some can be lonely in a crowd '' , nogol said elaborately .
ekstrohm asked .
`` we can breathe out there , all right .
this old world lost all of its helium and trace gases long ago .
`` ryan , look over there '' , nogol said .
ringing the ship .
`` i think they're dead '' , ekstrohm interjected quietly .
sonic , electronic , galvanic -- all blank .
`` ekstrohm , you and i will have a look '' , ryan said .
take it easy '' .
`` i heard a story once about a rookie who got excited when the captain stepped outside and he couldn't get an encephalographic reading on him .
`` i'm not worried about you mis-reading the dials , nogol , just about a lug like you reading them at all .
positive results start when it goes towards the hand you use to make your mark '' .
ryan told him what he could do then .
the strong negative field his suit set up would help to repel bacteria and insects .
he wasn't likely to come down with hot chills and puzzling striped fever .
it was day , but in the thin atmosphere contrasts were sharp between light and shadow .
ekstrohm nudged it with a boot .
`` uh-huh '' , ryan admitted .
well , it has to happen .
still , it sometimes gives you a creepy feeling to find a rabbit or a snapping turtle on some strange world .
the surveyor looked sidewise at the captain .
ekstrohm cleared his throat .
dissect it '' ? ?
`` i don't know , stormy .
no hands , for one thing .
`` no , it isn't '' , ekstrohm said .
in the meantime , we might be thinking on the problem all these dead beasts represent .
`` it looks like we did , when we made blastdown '' .
`` radiation '' ? ?
`` the planet is very low in radiation from mineral deposits , and the atmosphere seems to shield out most of the solar output .
`` i don't know about that .
maybe because they have had virtually no radioactive exposure and don't have any r's stored up , they could take a lot without harm '' .
or maybe it's sheer xenophobia .
`` maybe '' , the captain admitted .
but there's one possibility i particularly don't like '' .
`` suppose it was not us that killed these aliens .
i just hope it doesn't work on earthmen too .
ekstrohm lay in his bunk and thought , the camp is quiet .
there was no reason to leave the comfortable quarters inside the ship , except that , faced with a possibility of sleeping on solid ground , they simply had to get out .
each man had a bubble to himself , privacy after the long period of enforced intimacy on board the ship .
there was a keening of wind , and a cracking of the frozen ground .
the bunk he lay on was much more uncomfortable than the acceleration couches on board .
ekstrohm was not asleep .
he threw off the light blanket and swung his feet off the bunk , to the floor .
there was no longer any need to hide .
what had changed for him ? ?
in privacy he could walk around , leave the light on , read .
ekstrohm never slept .
actually , they said , he did sleep , but so shortly and fitfully that he forgot .
his body processes only slowed down enough for him to dispell fatigue poisons .
but he never slept .
naturally , he couldn't let his shipmates know this .
he had to hide it .
the buddies invariably took advantage of him .
where the hell did he get off threatening to report any laxness on their part to the captain ? ?
ekstrohm had to hide his secret .
but the secret itself was just as hard .
he scanned a few lines on the social repercussions of a celebrated nineteenth century sex murderer , but he couldn't seem to concentrate on the weighty , pontifical , ponderous style .
ekstrohm walked through the alien glass and looked up at the unfamiliar constellations , smelling the frozen sterility of the thin air .
ekstrohm was startled in the morning by a banging on the hatch of his bubble .
the angry burnt-red face of ryan greeted him .
what did you do with them '' ? ?
`` the dead beasties .
`` what are you talking about , ryan ? ?
`` i don't know .
`` gone '' ? ?
there was no ring of animal corpses .
nothing but wispy grass whipping in the keen breeze .
`` you are right now , buddy .
`` where do you get off , ryan '' ? ?
`` why pick me for your patsy ? ?
why accuse a shipmate of being behind this '' ? ?
but you aren't exactly the model of a surveyor , you know .
`` no '' , ekstrohm said , `` no , i didn't know that '' .
now comes this ! !
`` what could i do with your lousy dead bodies ? ?
`` all i know is that you were outside the bubbles last night , and you were the only sentient being who came in or out of our alarm web .
now all the bodies are missing , like they got up and walked away '' .
no .
`` ryan , there are other explanations for the disappearance of the bodies .
i give you my word i'm not trying to pull some stupid kind of joke , or to deliberately foul up the expedition .
ryan shook his head .
there's still such a thing as mental illness .
ekstrohm scowled .
i outweigh you fifty pounds and i'm fast for a big man '' .
why do you have to jump me the first time something goes wrong ? ?
helva .
she was not alone for there were three other such children in the big city's special nursery .
one of the babies died in the initial transferral but of helva's `` class '' , seventeen thrived in the metal shells .
instead of grabbing with hands , she manipulated mechanical extensions .
for helva was destined to be the `` brain '' half of a scout ship , partnered with a man or a woman , whichever she chose , as the mobile half .
her initial intelligence tests registered above normal and her adaptation index was unusually high .
however , no diagram of her brain patterns , no early i.q. tests recorded certain essential facts about helva that central must eventually learn .
a ship run by a human brain could not run rogue or insane with the power and resources central had to build into their scout ships .
most babes survived the techniques of pituitary manipulation that kept their bodies small , eliminating the necessity of transfers from smaller to larger shells .
shell people resembled mature dwarfs in size whatever their natal deformities were , but the well-oriented brain would not have changed places with the most perfect body in the universe .
not so obvious to her , but of more importance to her teachers , helva ingested the precepts of her conditioning as easily as she absorbed her nutrient fluid .
helva's civilization was not without busy , do-good associations , exploring possible inhumanities to terrestrial as well as extraterrestrial citizens .
when they were forced to , central worlds shrugged its shoulders , arranged a tour of the laboratory schools and set the tour off to a big start by showing the members case histories , complete with photographs .
most of their original objections about `` shells '' were overridden by the relief that these hideous ( to them ) bodies were mercifully concealed .
she had activated one of her microscopic tools which she would later use for minute repairs to various parts of her control panel .
she had tuned her sight to the proper degree .
shell people used their own vocal cords and diaphragms but sound issued through microphones rather than mouths .
`` why , what a lovely voice you have '' , said one of the female visitors .
her hum became a gurgle of surprise .
`` yes , we have quite a few years of voice training , madam '' , remarked helva calmly .
i enjoyed my lessons '' .
any other reaction would have been reported instantly .
`` thank you .
helva asked , politely .
`` work '' ? ?
`` i am currently reproducing the last supper on the head of a screw '' .
helva turned her vision back to magnification and surveyed her copy critically .
the lady's eyes , unmagnified , bugged out .
if she could have blushed , she would have .
the monitor of this discourse grinned with pride and amusement as helva's tone indicated pity for the unfortunate .
in a kind of shock , the ladies and gentlemen of the committee bent to observe the incredibly copied and brilliantly executed last supper on the head of a screw .
`` are you referring , sir '' , asked helva politely , `` to the dark age discussions of the number of angels who could stand on the head of a pin '' ? ?
`` if you substitute ' atom ' for ' angel ' , the problem is not insoluble , given the metallic content of the pin in question '' .
`` of course '' .
`` we are directed to develop a sense of proportion , sir , which contributes the same effect '' .
if the investigation committee spent months digesting the thoughtful food served them at the laboratory school , they left helva with a morsel as well .
she had , of course , been exposed to and enjoyed a music appreciation course which had included the better known classical works such as `` tristan und isolde '' , `` candide '' , `` oklahoma '' , `` nozze de figaro '' , the atomic age singers , eileen farrell , elvis presley and geraldine todd , as well as the curious rhythmic progressions of the venusians , capellan visual chromatics and the sonic concerti of the altairians .
shell people were schooled to examine every aspect of a problem or situation before making a prognosis .
therefore to helva , the problem that she couldn't open her mouth to sing , among other restrictions , did not bother her .
she approached the problem by investigating the methods of sound reproduction through the centuries , human and instrumental .
breath control and the proper enunciation of vowel sounds within the oral cavity appeared to require the most development and practice .
for their purposes , oxygen and other gases were not drawn from the surrounding atmosphere through the medium of lungs but sustained artificially by solution in their shells .
by relaxing the throat muscles and expanding the oral cavity well into the frontal sinuses , she could direct the vowel sounds into the most felicitous position for proper reproduction through her throat microphone .
acquiring a repertoire from the laboratory library was no problem to one trained to perfect recall .
it would not have occurred to her that it was curious for a female to sing bass , baritone , tenor , alto , mezzo , soprano and coloratura as she pleased .
if the authorities remarked on her curious avocation , they did so among themselves .
on the anniversary of her sixteenth year in her shell , helva was unconditionally graduated and installed in her ship , the aj .
the neural , audio , visual and sensory connections were made and sealed .
when she awoke , she was the ship .
she could take care of herself and her ambulatory half , in any situation already recorded in the annals of central worlds and any situation its most fertile minds could imagine .
she was ready for her great adventures and the arrival of her mobile partner .
there were several missions which demanded instant attention but helva had been of interest to several department heads in central for some time and each man was determined to have her assigned to his section .
the ship always chose its own partner .
as it was , while central wrangled among itself , robert tanner sneaked out of the pilots' barracks , out to the field and over to helva's slim metal hull .
tanner wisecracked .
`` are you my partner '' ? ?
`` all you have to do is ask '' , he retorted hopefully .
i thought perhaps there were no partners available and i've had no directives from central '' .
always she had had the company of other shells and more recently , technicians by the score .
`` no directives from central is scarcely a cause for regret , but there happen to be eight other guys biting their fingernails to the quick just waiting for an invitation to board you , you beautiful thing '' .
do you have anything for me '' ? ?
mercer never noticed the needle touch his arm .
he tried to run after b'dikkat , to hug the lead spacesuit , to tell b'dikkat that he loved him .
the many-bodied girl lay near him .
`` isn't it wonderful ? ?
i'm so happy to be here '' .
she radiated warmth and good fellowship .
he struggled out of his clothes .
the two women babbled and crooned at him .
with most of his mind he was happy .
he tried to tell the lady da , but the words weren't quite straight .
the drug went after the pain and swallowed it .
the pain was gone , though it had been crippling the first time .
he rammed his mind into focus and said to the two ladies who lay pinkly nude beside him in the desert , `` that was a good bite .
that would make b'dikkat happy '' ! !
said she , `` i'm strong , too .
remember , man , remember .
we can die , too , we can die like real people .
mercer smiled at her through his happiness .
but isn't this nice ''
he was wide awake , but he did not feel like doing anything .
b'dikkat was sterilizing his knives .
he endured the ministrations of the dromozoa without screams or movement .
he watched his own body with remote , casual interest .
after a long time the half-man dragged himself over to the group with his powerful arms .
mercer saw the sun rise on occasion , closed his eyes briefly , and opened them to see stars shining .
the dromozoa fed him in their mysterious way ; ;
at last he noticed a return of the inwardness of pain .
he had .
he remembered them well from his happy period .
he tried to ask the lady da how long they had had the drug , and how much longer they would have to wait before they had it again .
apparently her many torsos , stretched out along the ground , had a greater capacity for retaining the drug than did his body .
the half-man lay on the ground , arteries pulsating prettily behind the half-transparent film which protected his abdominal cavity .
the half-man woke , recognized mercer and gave him a healthily sleepy grin .
that's out of a play .
`` you mean a game with cards '' ? ?
`` i never saw that '' , said mercer , `` but i '' --
`` yes '' , said mercer , a little ashamed of his obviousness .
that's why i think of plays .
we all know when it is going to happen .
but we never know how long a scene is going to take '' .
asked mercer .
the half-man laughed with something close to real humor .
you've got the lovelies on the brain .
i mean we know the order in which things happen , but we have no clocks and nobody cares enough to count days or to make calendars and there's not much climate here , so none of us know how long anything takes .
i'm inclined to think that they are about two earth-weeks each '' .
the half-man received a dromozootic implant , turned red in the face , shouted senselessly at mercer , `` take it out , you fool ! !
when mercer looked on helplessly , the half-man twisted over on his side , his pink dusty back turned to mercer , and wept hoarsely and quietly to himself .
it might have been several days .
once again b'dikkat moved among them like a father ; ;
this time b'dikkat smiled pleasantly at the little head which had grown out of mercer's thigh -- a sleeping child's head , covered with light hair on top and with dainty eyebrows over the resting eyes .
when b'dikkat cut the head from mercer's thigh , he felt the knife grinding against the cartilage which held the head to his own body .
he felt the far , cool flash of unimportant pain , as b'dikkat dabbed the wound with a corrosive antiseptic which stopped all bleeding immediately .
then there had been another head beside his own .
he forgot the order .
lady da smiled at him often , but there was no love in this place .
in between teratologies , she was a pretty and shapely woman ; ;
she found this immensely comforting , even though mercer did not make much sense out of it .
sometimes b'dikkat took the new ones , resting in the everlasting sleep of their burned-out brains , in a ground-truck to be added to other herds .
finally , mercer did manage to follow b'dikkat to the door of the cabin .
only the memory of previous hurt , bewilderment and perplexity made him sure that if he did not ask b'dikkat when he , mercer , was happy , the answer would no longer be available when he needed it .
b'dikkat grudgingly agreed , but he did not come out of the doorway .
when he said it , they thought it exceedingly profound , though none of them understood it , since it was simply the amount of time that mercer had been on shayol :
good luck , fellow '' .
the secret little corner of his mind , which stayed sane through happiness and pain , made him wonder about b'dikkat .
what kept him happy without super-condamine ? ?
mercer , despite his happiness , wept a little at the strange fate of b'dikkat .
he remembered the last time he had eaten -- actual eggs from an actual pan .
he staggered back to the group .
there were unclaimed square miles of seating space around them , but he appreciated the kindliness of her gesture none the less .
the years , if they were years , went by .
sometimes the bubbling sound of geysers came faintly across the plain to the herd of men ; ;
there was night and day , but no setting of crops , no change of season , no generations of men .
`` people never live forever '' .
they did not have the wit to follow the stars in their courses , to exchange names with each other , to harvest the experience of each for the wisdom of all .
though they saw the old-style chemical rockets lift up from the field beyond b'dikkat's cabin , they did not make plans to hide among the frozen crop of transmuted flesh .
his handwriting was on a rock .
nor did they care .
they could still read the opening : `` once , i was like you , stepping out of my window at the end of day , and letting the winds blow me gently toward the place i lived in .
the front part of my head was called a face , and i could talk with it .
dan morgan told himself he would forget ann turner .
he certainly didn't want a wife who was fickle as ann .
but all of this was rationalization .
his plans and dreams had revolved around her so much and for so long that now he felt as if he had nothing .
the best antidote for the bitterness and disappointment that poisoned him was hard work .
each day he found himself thinking less often of ann ; ;
he had plenty of work to do .
the grass in the meadows came fast , now that the warm weather was here .
he had no idea how much time budd would give him .
he stopped every few minutes and leaned on his shovel as he studied the horizon , but nothing happened , each day dragging out with monotonous calm .
it could be some kind of trick budd had thought up .
morgan watched the two figures for a time , puzzled .
he cleaned his shovel , left it against the fence , picked up his winchester , and started downstream .
now he saw that both the man and woman were moving slowly and irregularly , staggering , as if they found it a struggle to remain on their feet .
they crawled through the north fence and came on toward him , and now he saw that both were young , not more than nineteen or twenty .
she lay there , making no effort to get back on her feet .
morgan hesitated , thinking that if this was a trick , it was a good one .
the boy licked his dry lips .
morgan jerked his head toward the front door .
leaning his winchester against the front of the house , he walked to the girl .
there's water in the house '' .
her eyes were glazed as if she didn't hear or even see him .
her face was very thin , and burned by the sun until much of the skin was dead and peeling , the new skin under it red and angry .
it must have hurt her even to walk , for the sole was completely off her left foot and morgan saw that it was bruised and bleeding .
she was amazingly light , and so relaxed in his arms that he wasn't even sure she was conscious .
no girl would go this far to fool a man so she could kill him .
he put her down on the couch , and going into the kitchen , saw that the boy had dropped into a chair beside the table .
both had blonde hair and blue eyes , and there was even a faint similarity of features .
she drank greedily , and murmured , `` thank you '' , as he lowered her head .
he had seen a few nester wagons go through the country , the families almost starving to death , but he had never seen any of them on foot and as bad off as these two .
morgan returned to the kitchen , built a fire , and carried in several buckets of water from the spring which he poured into the copper boiler that he had placed on the stove .
`` who are you and what happened to you '' ? ?
`` i'm billy jones '' , the boy answered .
we ran out of money and we haven't eaten for two days '' .
`` are we in wyoming '' ? ?
`` about five miles north of the line '' .
`` we've been looking for work , but all the ranchers have turned us down '' .
morgan demanded .
why didn't you go there '' ? ?
`` this is a mighty empty country '' , morgan said .
you'd have starved to death if you'd missed both places '' .
could you give us a job , mr. ''
dan morgan '' .
they might kill him in his sleep , thinking there was money in the house .
the girl's thin face haunted him .
he wasn't so sure about the boy .
there was more to this than jones had told him .
he'd be an idiot to let them stay he thought , but he couldn't send them on , either .
i guess you'd better go on in the morning '' .
`` i've been mucking in a mine in the san juan , but i used to work on a ranch .
we'll work hard , mr. morgan '' .
`` right now you need a meal and a bath .
`` i know '' , jones said dejectedly .
when the meal was ready , he told jones to wash up , and going into the front room , woke the girl .
she rubbed her eyes and stretched , then sat up , her hands going to her hair .
`` who are you ? ?
`` i'm dan morgan .
you fell down in front of the house , and i carried you in .
`` oh '' .
then she murmured : `` you're very kind , mr. morgan .
`` i don't have many strays coming to my front door '' , he said .
`` of course '' .
he caught her by an arm and helped her into the kitchen .
`` i'm sorry , mr. morgan .
`` and hungry '' , he said .
it's not much of a meal , but it's what i eat '' .
the girl cried .
he told himself he had never seen two people eat so much .
the grateful way she looked at morgan made him ashamed of himself .
she said , `` i guess the lord looks out for fools , drunkards , and innocents '' .
`` which are you '' ? ?
`` that's all i'm sure of '' .
he carried the tub from the back of the house where it hung from a nail in the wall .
your feet are in bad shape , mrs. jones .
`` no , she'll be all right '' , jones said quickly .
`` we'll see '' , morgan said .
the girl asked .
he nodded and , going into the bedroom , brought a needle , thread , and scissors .
he nodded at the door in front of him .
the bed isn't made , but you'll find plenty of blankets there '' .
`` we'll pay you back if you'll let us .
`` it's all right '' , he said .
you'd better sleep '' .
he said : `` if it's all right with you , mr. morgan , i'll sleep out here on the couch .
i just can't take any chances on getting her pregnant , and if we were sleeping together ''
`` we got fired '' , jones said .
they were a pair of lost , whipped kids , morgan thought as he went to bed .
`` you can't stay here with me .
`` you can't make me go '' .
he was thinking of rittenhouse and how he had left him there , to rock to death on the porch of the splendide .
beneath his black shirt his frail shoulders shook and croaks of pain broke from his throat , the stored pain shattering free in slow gasps , terrible to see .
against that other man he could rally his anger ; ;
gavin's lips moved so that clayton had to stoop to catch the words .
he whispered .
just a half-breed 'pache , never said much , never meant anythin to me , but he stuck with me .
it was a fair fight , the boy provoked it -- big charlie told me so .
they killed big charlie , dumped his body in my rose garden two nights ago .
just cleared out .
they just all cleared out .
he wiped his lips with a sleeve , then stared at clayton in a childish kind of wonder .
`` yes '' .
clayton choked , shook his head , murmuring , `` no '' .
the old man beckoned with one finger and clayton went forward to him .
`` all my life '' , he said , `` i tried .
i saw you driftin away -- but i tried .
now there's nothin left of me .
oh ! !
that would mock me too much ! !
`` i'll go , clay '' .
the eyes followed him fearfully .
there isn't much time .
you get ready ''
gavin's stallion was in the barn and he tightened the cinches over the saddle blanket , working by touch in the darkness , comforting the animal with easy words .
the stallion had smelled the mare coming into heat and began to paw the turf , shaking his head .
the mare had backed away .
`` she doesn't want you now .
gavin stood on the porch , a thin figure .
clayton called to him and he came slowly down the steps .
`` to a ranch in the valley .
we may take her with us -- to california .
i have to think about it .
`` california '' .
`` that's a new land .
two men , together like us , we could do somethin fine out there , maybe find a place where no one's ever been .
`` yes , like a father and son '' .
`` i made you so you could stand up .
`` yes , gavin , you did '' .
`` help me up , clay .
clayton lifted him gently into the saddle , like a child .
`` they'll trample it down .
`` it will grow again -- in california '' .
`` lived alone here for three years , before any man came .
it was nice then , so peaceful and quiet .
i don't want to leave it '' .
the two horses broke from the yard , from the circle of light cast by the lamp still burning in the house , into the darkness .
they rode at a measured pace through the valley .
the moon had sunk below the black crest of the mountains and the land , seen through eyes that had grown accustomed to the absence of light , looked primeval , as if no man had ever trespassed before .
gavin sighed bitterly .
he saw them ambushed , strewn in the postures of the broken and the dying .
the silence oppressed him , made him bend low over the horse's neck as if to hide from a wind that had begun to blow far away and was twisting slowly through the darkness in its slow search .
then at last the darkness began to dissolve .
the wan light spread over the ground and the valley revealed in the first glimmer the contours of trees and fences and palely shadowed gullies .
the two men whipped their horses into town and flung themselves up the steps of the saloon , crying their intelligence .
but the liquor had flushed their courage .
lester heard their muttering , saw their eyes reveal their desire .
`` he's leavin .
clayton is with him , takin him out of the valley .
`` keep out of this '' , purvis snarled .
you see , he lied to us when he said he was leavin alone '' .
first he thought of the time he had ridden to gavin and told him how his cattle were being rustled at the far end of the valley .
then he thought of a time when clayton's horse had fallen lame in the gap .
he wouldn't even dance with her at gavin's party .
and you stand by like a fool and let him do it ''
it was the night clayton had tricked them in the poker game .
he turned to lester .
he meant to help gavin all the time .
he swung round to the other men -- `` we can catch him easy ! !
if we let them go , they won't stay away , they'll find men to ride with them and they'll be back .
lester's hand fluttered to cabot's shoulder .
`` he killed tom -- do you understand that '' ? ?
he fled through the door and down the steps , running , and the men grunted and followed , pushing lester to one side where he backed against the wall with the sleeve of his jacket raised before his eyes to shut out the light .
they mounted up and rode slowly behind the others at a safe distance .
in the cold dawn the mist swirled low to the ground , then rose with a gust of sudden wind to leave the valley clear .
when they turned in the saddle they could see the men behind them , strung out on the prairie in a flat black line .
the mare began to tire and clayton felt the spray of snow from the hoofs of gavin's stallion .
they neither gained nor fell back .
ahead of him gavin turned slightly off the trail and pointed for the gap , no more than a mile away .
he did not look back ; ;
he knew who was riding after him -- the men he had known all his life , the men who had worked for him , sworn their loyalty to him .
and he was fleeing , running -- fleeing his death and his life at the same time .
with every leaping stride of the horse beneath him he crossed one more patch of earth that had been his , that he would never see again .
california is too far , he thought .
he was too old -- when he passed up and through the corridor of pines that lined the trail he could see ahead , he was passing from life .
he was , in fact , showing signs of reviving .
a bayonet hung in a belt scabbard .
mike stripped these from him and donned them .
they dragged him inside the building .
julia , seeing the bandage , rushed to him .
she breathed .
he turned to susan and kissed her on the cheek .
`` you are very brave '' .
`` we'll talk later .
`` we'll grab horses '' , dean said .
mike debated it , trying to decide whether fiske was strong enough to ride .
he had none here .
the guerrilla bivouac remained silent .
someone evidently was on duty there .
about a dozen animals were held inside the stockade , as best mike could make out in the moonlight .
he handed the guard's rifle to fiske .
`` we'll stampede the rest .
all of you be ready to ride hell for leather '' .
he handed the bayonet to dean and kept the pistol .
she clung to him , talking to him , and dabbing at her eyes .
he was thinking that the way she had responded to his own kiss hadn't meant what he had believed it had .
dean turned from susan and took julia fortune in his arms .
she too began to weep .
`` all right '' , he said .
`` be careful , mclish '' ! !
`` the way you were careful '' ? ?
`` running around in the moonlight almost naked and slugging a man with a rock '' ? ?
he wanted no more sentimental scenes with her .
something all of them would regret .
and using him , mike mclish , as a sop to her pride .
`` stay well back of me '' , he said .
there's bound to be someone on guard , but the hat might fool them long enough for me to get close '' .
it was pierced by a wagon gate built of two wings .
mike passed through it and moved toward the dark mass of horses .
a voice spoke near-at-hand .
just me '' , mike said .
he located his man .
mike kept walking and got within arm's reach before the man became suspicious and straightened from his lax slouch .
but the luck that had been running their way left him .
he tried to veer the rifle around to fire into mike's body .
the bullet went wide .
this time it connected solidly on the man's temple , felling him .
the startled horses began rearing on their tethers .
`` are you hit '' ? ?
`` no , but the fat's in the fire '' ! !
`` there's no chance now of all of us getting away .
the sentry's saddled horse stood picketed nearby , having been kept handy in case of need .
`` up you go '' ! !
`` ride '' ! !
`` why not you '' ? ?
`` dammit '' ! !
`` you're lighter than me .
try to find these feds .
you're the one that's taking the big chance '' .
`` no telling how good this horse is '' , mike panted .
watch out for apaches when it comes daylight .
you might need it .
i'll stampede the rest of these horses so they can't chase you '' .
`` mclish '' , he said as he kicked the horse into motion , `` i'd be a mighty sad man if we never met again '' .
mike ran down the line , slashing picket ropes with the bayonet .
that touched off a total stampede .
these poured through the gate and joined the flight .
the guerrillas were swarming from their bivouac at the west end of the enclosure .
mike yelled .
he scuttled in shadow along the east wall of the stockade and then followed the south wall until he was at the rear of the two frame buildings .
his shout had been taken up and repeated .
all were carrying guns they had seized up , but they were half-clad or hardly clad at all .
they had pistols in their hands .
they followed the others toward the east gate .
mike made a dash to the rear of the frame buildings .
the area was deserted .
mike crawled to the door and peered in .
a lantern hung from a peg , giving light .
a brace of pistols , holstered on belts , hung from a peg , along with ammunition pouches .
mike seized a blanket from a pallet in a corner , spread it on the floor and used it to form a bag in which he placed his booty .
his looting of the orderly room had taken only a minute or two and the vicinity was still clear of guerrillas .
he set his bundle down .
he picked up the powder canister and ran out .
he shouldered the blanket again , backed off , and tossed the lantern with its open wick beneath the wagon .
powder flame gushed beneath the wagon .
they realized the truth .
one struck the muzzle of one of the rifles that projected from the shoulder pack .
a bullet tore the earth from beneath his foot when he was a stride or two from safety .
guerrillas were racing toward him .
the three of them floundered through the door into the interior and fell in a heap .
she crouched aside as bullets beat at the portal , chewing into the planks .
the iron hinges held , but the planks were in danger of being torn from the crossbars .
he hovered over her to shield her , for spent bullets were thudding against the rear walls .
guerrillas were only a dozen yards away , charging the house .
he dropped a man with the first bullet .
that halted the rush .
the wagons were burning fiercely .
the blaze was spreading to the frame buildings .
`` gawdamighty '' ! !
`` there goes our grub an' ammunition '' ! !
calhoun shouted .
hurry '' ! !
but what few containers they found were inadequate .
both buildings were in flames .
the roof of the command post began to buckle .
lew durkin yelled .
hustle '' ! !
a sizable supply of powder had been touched off .
the glow of the fire reached through the openings in the windows , giving light enough to examine mike's wound .
but it had missed the bone and had passed on through .
mike tested the leg and found that he was able to hobble around on it .
`` no .
here comes jason .
reverend jason , looking worried , hurried toward us .
the men seem to think so '' .
they'll probably attack at dawn '' , montero said .
using his hands as a trumpet he shouted , `` fort up ! !
there's a large war party on their way '' ! !
then little billy began shouting orders to round up the ponies and fill the water buckets and for the cooks to hurry up with the meal .
`` that was a terrible thing to do '' , i said to oso .
and here all the time you knew the sioux would be using our rifles on them ! !
oso gave me an unruffled look .
`` what would you have done in montero's moccasins ? ?
he shook his head .
that's why the british never got the tribes to fight for the king .
then he went on to the cheyennes and told them that the sioux was goin' to move up .
hell , they were fightin' each other so hard they had no time for anyone else .
i saw that letter .
`` but that was war '' , i said .
`` you're wrong , matt .
first it was the nations against themselves , then it was them against the whites .
i remember being told it would happen so fast people would think it took place overnight .
once we get over the mountains others will come along .
that bastard chambers ! !
before we get through he'll have the blackfeet hankerin' for our hair and our goods .
for , unlike the sioux and the crows , the aricaras are not great horsemen , nor are they aggressive like the savage blackfeet .
still , i was disgusted with myself for agreeing with montero's methods .
in the brief moment i had to talk to them before i took my post on the ring of defenses , i indicated i was sickened by the methods men employed to live and trade on the river .
`` let the savages kill each other .
reverend jason was understandably bitter .
those little children .
but oso replied calmly , `` trouble ain't easy to dodge out in this country , rev'rend '' .
attack
our camp was in the center of a wide valley .
he had ordered the ponies brought inside the fortified circle and had assigned pierre and a band of picked engages the job of trying to keep them steady under fire .
the rees undoubtedly would try to cut down as many of the animals as possible .
the cooks had prepared one of the best meals we'd had in a long time , and on montero's orders had baked enough bread to last the day .
the worst part had been the waiting ; ;
coyotes and hunting wolves sounded like signaling indian scouts , the whinny of a restless pony made one's skin crawl .
i didn't catch a wink .
it was a relief when they finally came .
`` oso '' , montero called `` i'll get gray eyes '' .
`` hold your fire '' , montero was shouting .
i'll shoot the first man who doesn't '' .
they were about a mile off ; ;
at first they were only feathers and dark indistinguishable faces and bodies , hunched over their horses' heads .
gray eyes was in the lead .
jagged red and black medicine symbols covered his chest .
next to him was a young boy i was sure had sat near me at one of the trading sessions .
i found his chest in my sights .
the circle came nearer and nearer .
montero's rifle cracked .
gray eyes remained erect .
as he started to slump over , another warrior swung him onto his horse .
at the last second i dropped my sights from the bare chest and bright red circle to the chest of his pony .
he started to run but oso's shot caught him on the wing .
`` if you're goin' to kill 'em -- ! !
oso growled .
the aricaras broke under the devastating fire , wheeled and retreated .
lead up ! !
montero was shouting .
out in front of our walls the grass was covered with dead and dying men , war shields , lances , blankets and wounded and dead horses .
a horse screamed as it twisted from side to side in a frenzy .
the square head fell over .
his legs pumped furiously , his long black hair streamed out behind him .
he was dead before he hit the ground .
montero shouted furiously .
the charge , i tell you '' ! !
they grew louder as the indians charged again .
`` gray eyes is back , , montero said .
i could see the blood running down his chest .
i forgot to aim .
montero's shot had caught him high in the chest ; ;
again we waited for montero .
the horses were only several lengths away when he fired .
our rolling volley swept most of the other riders from their mounts .
i heard the whir of an ax and a canadian's face burst apart in a bloody spray .
a second leaped from his horse to the top of the bale , firing four arrows in such rapid succession it didn't seem possible they were in flight .
oso reached up , jerked the buck from the bale and snapped his neck .
reverend jason got one , the canadians the others .
the ponies were almost uncontrollable .
this time more of them hurdled the barrier .
it sounded like a man kicking a melon .
although my shot killed his horse , he rolled off the bale on top of me .
his eyes were dark , fluid , fearful , and he gave a sigh as my knife went in .
now under me i could see him for what he really was , a boy dressed up in streaks of paint .
it was pitiful to see the thin ranks of warriors , old and young , wheeling and twisting their ponies frantically from side to side only to be tumbled bleeding from their saddles by the relentless slam , slam of the cruelly efficient hawkinses .
some gracefully soared from the backs of their wounded , screaming mounts to make one last defiant charge before the lead split their hearts or tore their guts .
the few survivors grudgingly turned away .
she was carrying a quirt , and she started to raise it , then let it fall again and dangle from her wrist .
`` you could burn down this whole mountainside with a fire that size .
it would to me '' .
`` the fire's too big .
he was losing patience again .
she had helped him change his mind .
`` i'm telling you .
let it burn down .
he was taken aback .
`` there's some mistake '' , he said finally .
it's bigger than it has to be , though i don't see where it's doing any harm .
i'm not leaving in the morning .
i own the place '' .
it didn't seem to tell her anything .
she studied it for a long time .
`` you own this place '' ? ?
`` you bought it '' ? ?
`` jake carwood .
the girl laughed .
i ought to .
wilson didn't say anything .
she had picked up the quirt and was twirling it around her wrist and smiling at him .
`` no '' , wilson said .
it's not the kind of thing that a man would be proud of .
he sold me a clear title .
if you want to see '' --
`` it wouldn't matter to my father , and not to me .
be sure it's out when you leave .
i'll let you go back to doing the dishes now '' .
he took the reins just below the bit and held them firmly , and it was his turn to smile now .
`` it doesn't hurt .
somebody might mistake you for a woman '' .
she was quick .
she swung the quirt again , and this time he caught her wrist and pulled her out of the saddle .
he grabbed her by the shoulders and went down on one knee , taking her weight so that some of the wind was driven out of him .
he got up slowly , and she was already on her feet , and he stood facing her .
`` i ought to '' -- he said .
`` that quirt -- i ought to use it on you , where it would do the most good .
`` she isn't , mister '' .
the fire had gone down , and the man was only a shadow against the trees .
he was tall and dark-skinned , a half-breed , wilson thought .
`` she's not a man , mister '' , he said .
if you've got any ideas '' .
`` put the rifle down , joseph '' , the girl said .
`` i thought i told you to stay home '' .
the scar looked pure white in the half-darkness ; ;
`` you shouldn't be riding up here after dark , judith '' , he said quietly .
it's no job for you '' .
he took it without flinching .
you've got no business up here '' .
but the scar seemed to pull hard at the corner of his mouth , and his eyes were hurt and angry .
he watched the half-breed as he turned silently .
wilson brushed the dust from his coat .
he asked .
you're pretty hard on him '' .
`` he's a friend .
is there anything else you want to know '' ? ?
`` i guess i'll find out soon enough .
not yours .
it must have got there when you fell against me '' .
`` i'll bet that's as close as you've been to a man since you were a baby '' , wilson said .
`` oh , no '' , he said , and he was without humor now .
i've had enough of you .
i don't know what makes you think you can get away with this kind of business , and i don't care about that , either .
but i'll know how to handle you next time '' .
he side-stepped her blow and she fell , stumbling against the gelding .
her hat had come off and fallen behind her shoulders , held by the string , and he could see her face more clearly than he had at any time before .
but her prettiness was what he had noticed first , and all the other things had come afterward : cruelty , meanness , self-will .
and one had been too many .
they weren't sleeping , of course , but they thought they were doing him a favor by pretending .
they expected greater things from him , regardless of how trying the circumstances , and they were disappointed .
they lay a little too stiffly , with their eyes straining to stay closed .
`` both of you .
i'll be down at the creek finishing the dishes , if you want me '' .
the coyote was calling again , and he hoped that this time there would be no other sounds to interrupt it .
he had a feeling that the girl meant trouble .
he scrubbed absent-mindedly at the pans and reflected on how things had turned out .
already some of the pain had gone from amelia's death .
there would still be plenty of moments of regret and sadness and guilty relief .
and they had almost everything they needed : land , a house , two whiteface bulls , three horses .
six hundred and forty acres , the old man back in st. louis had said ; ;
well , the grass was there , though in some places the ground was too steep for a cow to get to it .
and there was a house ; ;
in the last analysis , though , wilson had little cause to complain .
there was only one place where jake carwood's description had gone badly awry : the peace and quiet .
and he had a feeling -- thanks to the girl -- that things would get worse before they got better .
they had the house cleaned up by noon , and wilson sent the boy out to the meadow to bring in the horses .
kathy was already in the wagon .
wilson backed the team into the traces , and wished they weren't going to town at all .
that girl last night , what was her name ? ?
it was the only thing about her that was the least bit hard to remember .
he had spent two hours riding around the ranch that morning , and in broad daylight it was even less inviting than judith pierce had made it seem .
but there was water .
yes , there was plenty of water , too much , and that was probably the trouble .
the first part of the road was steep , but it leveled off after the second bend and curled gradually into the valley .
a warm breeze played across it , moving it like waves .
it took them an hour before they came to the first houses of kelseyville .
all dusty and sunbaked .
such was my state of mind that i did not question the possibility of this ; ;
i was nearly thirty at the time .
it was dark and , i sensed , very large ; ;
sometimes i was aware of people moving about in the darkness .
a glimpse of three of four vague figures , at the most .
squatting , as if waiting .
since they could see me but i not them , their presence in the hall disturbed me .
this impressed me , until i realized how limited was his sphere of influence .
when the phone rang he answered it .
none of the men hanging around the hall bothered to speak to him .
he spoke to me in a gruff voice , an affectation which quite belied his personality .
it was obvious that he wished himself different from the sort of person he thought he was .
when one of the men in the hall behind us spat on the floor and scraped his boot over the gob of spittle i noticed how the clerk winced .
his hat ( the cause of his baldness ? ?
the morning's tabloids were on the counter , and a stack of dog-eared men's magazines .
everything about the clerk was trivial .
noticing my disappointment he attempted to salvage what scraps and shreds of authority he felt might still be clinging to his person .
when he saw me coming he turned his radio off .
he would pick up the ringing phone with studied negligence , then bark into it with gruff importance .
in the mornings , i was informed , fluorescent tubes , similar to the one above the counter , illuminated the entire hall .
he pointed out the switch to me and for a moment i foolishly believed that he would let deed follow words .
now , here was something of obvious importance to me , yet when i reached for the tickets he snatched them away from my hand .
each of those tickets was of great value to its rightful recipient .
later i would remember what this pompous little man had told me about the worth of a ticket .
when suitably lighted , what would it look like ? ?
one afternoon , upon receiving permission and the necessary instructions from the clerk , i had visited the toilet adjoining the hall .
for although i had crossed a corner of the hall on my way to the toilet i still could not tell for sure how far to the rear the darkness extended .
i had for some time been hoping , in vain , for one of the dim figures to pass between the fan vents and myself .
it was , i felt , possible that they were men who , having received no tickets for that day , had remained in the hall , to sleep perhaps , in the corners farthest removed from the counter with its overhead light .
also the clerk appeared to disapprove of my frequent curious glances back over my shoulder .
and i had hardly finished my business in the toilet on the aforementioned occasion when the lights in that place , like the hall lights controlled from the switch in the office , flicked off and on impatiently .
i felt certain it was self-appointed .
i decided to see no more of the clerk until the processing of my papers was completed .
i lived in a state of suspense because of it .
i had signed it off on the forms .
although i had been inside it i had not yet seen it functioning .
i did not despair , however ; ;
i was constantly searching for clues around the neighborhood of the hall .
large warehouses flanked the street on which the hall fronted .
sometimes i noticed the tops of ships' masts and funnels reaching above the pier roofs .
the hall , on the other hand , appeared lifeless and deserted on these long waterfront afternoons .
its front was windowless , but irregularities in the masonry might be an indication that windows , now blinded , had once looked out upon the street .
but it was not a tall structure and other buildings concealed it .
i returned to the hall , despite my dislike for the clerk .
meanwhile spring had passed well into summer .
when i asked him what , if anything , i could do about it , he surprised me by referring me to the director of the hall .
the clerk impressed this upon me : that i should not arrive in the hall before ten o'clock .
although it was dark as usual i could see that the hall had only recently contained a great many people .
the big fans were going , drawing from the large room the remnants of stale smoke which drifted about in pale strata underneath the ceiling .
the staircase itself seemed still to be echoing the heavy footfalls of many men .
no one was behind it , but in the rear wall of the office i noticed , for the first time , a door which had been left partially open .
the director's office .
the director came to the door .
he was a man in his late forties , with graying hair , of medium height ; ;
he wore perforated , white-topped shoes ; ;
but he came toward me sedately enough , showed me around the counter , offered me a seat inside his office , then walked to a file cabinet and got out my application .
he did not look at them now .
he spoke , in a voice as immaculate as his appearance .
begging my pardon , he must express his astonishment over seeing a person of my background applying at the hall .
indeed , my scholastic qualifications were such that he , a college graduate himself , must envy me them .
what sort of men i would come into contact with , at the hall ? ?
i felt certain that the director , like the afternoon clerk , seldom moved beyond the counter , that the hall , to them , was a jungle , a dark and unwelcome place .
i had always , i said , hankered after working hard with my hands .
to this effect i had already severed all connections which bound me to my former existence .
`` tie him up '' .
before they could guess his intention rankin stepped forward and swung the guard's own gun against the uncovered head , hard .
barton said harshly , `` why did you do that '' ? ?
`` what did you want me to do , kiss him ? ?
barton caught the lighter man's shoulder and swung him around .
if you ever try anything without my orders i'll kill you '' .
it seemed to barton that the green eyes mocked him , the thin-lipped smile held insolence , but he had no time to waste now .
they filed out through the guard-room door , into the paved square .
there was no chance .
there was no moon .
they reached the guard house without alerting the men on the walls above , and powers slipped through the door .
they looked up in surprise as powers came in .
`` it's curtiss '' , he said , naming the man rankin had hit .
they stared at him .
`` what's wrong with him '' ? ?
the sergeant turned to the door .
`` one sound and you're dead '' .
powers had not followed .
the man half-reached for the cord of the alarm bell .
deliberately , with none of rankin's viciousness , he laid the barrel of his gun alongside the guard's head .
even barton could not quite believe it .
they slid through the wicket in the big gate , ghosted across the dark ground .
barton was relieved to see that carl dill and emmett foster had brought extra mounts .
no one hurried .
the only thing which would have attracted attention was that two wore the uniform of prison guards , three the striped suits of convicts .
in a small grove against the river they halted , turning deep into the protection of the trees .
a good man , emmett .
it was to him that barton had sent carl dill on dill's release from the prison .
kid boyd was unusually silent , rankin watchful , a few paces apart .
`` i won't even try to thank you '' .
he said in a studied voice , `` i didn't do it for you .
you're the only man the night riders will follow .
barton turned away , his eyes falling upon rankin beside his horse .
the murderer lifted his head .
`` you aren't one of us .
`` i got no place to go '' .
he did not trust rankin , his violent temper , his killer instinct .
they were in a fight , outweighed in both numbers and money .
but if they really hoped to succeed they needed professionals , men who knew how to use a gun against men , who would match the killers on the other side .
`` bury those uniforms so they won't be found '' .
he wanted a careful , uninterrupted report from dill on the conditions in the valley .
he too knew the agony of going for weeks , sometimes months without the solace of tobacco .
through the gloom he could not see the man beside him clearly but he knew him thoroughly .
carl dill was neither a rancher nor a valley man .
he had done time for the theft .
both hated donald kruger .
he said now , `` i've got the perfect headquarters set up .
mitch barton knew the place .
they had spent a million dollars , carving in a road , putting up buildings , drilling their haulage tunnel .
`` the road's washed badly '' , said dill , `` but there's a trail you can get over with a horse .
barton nodded .
`` as mad as ever .
i'm an outsider .
barton waited for a long moment , then asked the question which lay always uppermost in his mind .
did you find him '' ? ?
`` he's in morgan's ferry '' .
`` what's he doing there '' ? ?
`` dealing faro '' .
how come '' ? ?
barton cursed under his breath .
`` everyone .
he's quite a rat , you know .
he's informed them of everything you've ever written him .
barton stood up .
dill had come up also .
i almost didn't tell you '' .
dill's voice tightened .
that's what they'll expect you to do .
i understand how you feel about the child .
`` the hell you do '' .
`` i never saw him .
`` i can't leave him there .
i've got to get the boy .
barton's men cut the telegraph wires in half a dozen places , carrying away whole sections to make repairs more difficult .
it reached donald kruger in his massive home in burlingame .
it brought men out of bed and sent them into hurried conferences .
creighton hague sat in his office above the ione pit .
the building was dwarfed by the scene outside .
the gravel was the bed of an ancient river , buckled in some prehistoric upheaval of earth .
a million dollars' of gold a month .
the monitors ran twenty-four hours each day .
hague , like all who worked near the pits , was partly deafened from the constant assault against his eardrums .
fat showed in loose rolls beneath the shirt .
he was proud of his accomplishments , proud of his job , proud that donald kruger and his associates trusted him .
no man could have reached his spot nor held it without being ruthless , and hague had made a virtue of ruthlessness all of his life .
hague had never accustomed himself to kodyke .
the eyes always held hague , eyes of a dead man , lidless as a lizard's , with the fixed intensity of a cobra .
he knew nothing about the man's history .
kodyke was to head the dread company police .
he threw out the hi-graders .
hague squeezed down his uneasy dislike .
`` this is mitchell barton .
apparently he bribed one of the guards .
kodyke took the picture in a lean hand , studying it thoughtfully .
`` dangerous , yes .
they blame us for all their troubles .
it cost us a hundred thousand dollars and thirty days lost time to fix them .
the gunman nodded , slipping the picture into his breast pocket , saying nothing .
if she sensed any unusual preoccupation on the part of her mother , she did not comment upon it .
she had offered to walk , but pamela knew she would not feel comfortable about her child until she had personally confided her to the care of the little pink woman who chose to be called `` auntie '' .
then she turned the station wagon around and headed it back down the hill , with the village as her ostensible destination .
it was really quite simple .
that mistake , she thought , had cost her dearly these past few days , and she wanted to avoid falling into any more of the traps that the mountain might set for her .
when the station wagon drew abreast of the dusty dirt road that led up to the porch of the culver house , pamela turned the wheel , guiding the car to its familiar parking spot close to the house , and stopped .
she locked the ignition , removed the keys , stepped out of the car and went into the house .
on her bureau lay a small , brass ornament of simple design and faded engraving -- an object which , pamela believed now , had been the property of her great-grandfather , major hiram munroe culver .
if she , pamela , were being held responsible for his crimes , then hers must be the final act of expiation .
slowly and thoughtfully , she slipped the ornament into the pocket of her slacks , moved down the stairs and out of the house .
atonement , if atonement were possible , could only be made at that sacred , sacrificial basin .
perhaps it was insane , pamela thought .
but she was caught in it , and she faced the terrible possibility that , if it were a dream , it was one from which she might never awaken .
she remembered little of her previous journey there with grace , and she could but hope that her dedication to her mission would enable her to accomplish it .
the ground was covered with soft pine needles and the slope was gentle .
it was not , thought pamela , such an evil place after all .
perhaps she had no reason to fear these trees that whispered their secrets above her head as she passed .
pamela felt calm and peaceful as she walked along .
she regarded them as signs that she was nearing the glen she sought , and she was glad to at last be doing something positive in her unenunciated , undefined struggle with the mountain and its darkling inhabitants .
a few days ago , she would have thought such an expedition as this utterly ridiculous ; ;
she did not pause to consider what she would do if her plan should fail ; ;
if , as she walked , her steps fumbled from time to time , she chose to ignore that omen .
success depended upon maintaining her equanimity ; ;
the forest took on an impersonal aspect .
unconcerned , indifferent , unmotivated , the forest was simply there -- fighting man's depredations with more abundant growth and man's follies with its own musical evening laughter .
knowing that its ageless mass would always dwarf the short span of time allotted to any man .
she must not think about time .
in her grim pursuit of tranquillity , pamela focused her thoughts on her husband .
how could he comprehend her need when he himself was innocent ? ?
his bright , daylight mind would whistle away such images ; ;
pamela was glad jim was nowhere near .
the mountainside grew steeper and she slipped once or twice on the smooth pine needles .
bushes and vines abetted the rocks in forming thorny detours for the struggling stranger , and without the direct light of the sun to act as compass , pamela could no longer be positive of her direction .
she was sure she would reach the pool by climbing , and she clung to that belief despite the increasing number of obstacles .
it was a bold , dark castle of pine boughs that stood like a medieval fortress , eclipsing the sun and human time .
silence came into the forest -- a solid being that clapped its hand over the murmuring mouths of the birds and the whispered comfort of the trees .
silence stood in front of her , waiting , and in back of her , blocking her retreat .
in spite of her attempt to preserve her balance , she fell , bruising her arm on a naked stone .
she started to brush the dirt and bits of leaves off her clothes .
she looked around .
she seemed to have come such a long distance -- too far for her destination which had wilfully been swallowed up in the greedy gloom of the trees .
she was standing in a thick grove .
the earth smelled moist and pungent as it might in a cave deprived of the cleansing effect of the sun's rays .
the thought made pamela shudder .
not a breeze exactly , but a pocket of icy air that settled with a loathsome familiarity upon the deep confines of the grove , catching pamela in a leering embrace .
where before had she felt or dreamt or imagined such a scene ? ?
it enclosed her clammy hands and twined around her ankles .
it crawled across her breasts , suffocating the life in her nipples .
it entered her body with the ghastly intimacy of an incubus , and its particles , spreading , creeping , crawling , joined themselves into steel bands that constricted her knees so tightly that they ached ; ;
clutched her throat and sucked up the moisture in her mouth so that her tongue was dry and hard and stuck to the roof of her mouth and her teeth were clenched together in the rigid fixture of her jaws .
but she did not know which way to go .
she had been snared here by a vile sensuality that writhed around her throat in ever-tightening circles .
does the mountain listen ? ?
she had to escape .
she thrust forward through the shadows and the trees that resisted her and tried to fling her back .
every movement she made seemed unnecessarily noisy .
bushes swished and scratched at her slacks ; ;
miraculously , she found exactly the right statement .
`` i want to tell you something thomas demontez lord .
but '' --
`` to me you'll always be the girl o' my dreams , an' the sweetest flower that grows '' .
she yanked away from him furiously .
shu-tt up-pp ! !
do you hear me ? ?
lord nodded agreeably .
he knew that anything a brainy little lady like her had to say would be plumb important , as well as pleasin' to the ear , and he didn't want to miss a word of it .
`` i think you stink , tom lord ! !
said joyce .
so i can hear you while i'm checkin' the car .
he opened the door and got out .
`` well ? ?
then , helpfully , as she merely stared at him in weary silence , `` maybe you could write it down for me , huh ? ?
`` aah , go on '' , she said .
he grinned , nodded , and walked around to the front of the car .
then he hunkered down on the heels of his handmade boots , peered into the orderly chaos of axle , shock absorber , and spring .
after a time , he straightened again , brushing the red permian dust from his hands , slapping it from his six-dollar levis and his tailored , twenty-five-dollar shirt .
never , he'd once told joyce , had he encountered any man or situation that called for a gun .
that's really all he's got , all he is .
if i could make myself feel the same way
against the limitless background of sky and wasteland it was easy to confirm her analysis .
he was handsome , with his coal-black hair and eyes , his fine-chiseled features .
he wasn't a big man ; ;
neither was he very powerful of build .
and his relatively small hands and feet gave him an almost delicate appearance .
just so darned sure of himself that he puts the indian sign on everyone .
he caught her eye , came back around the car with the boot-wearer ; ;
why did these yokels still wear boots , anyway , when most had scarcely sat a horse in years ? ?
`` oh , cut it out , tom '' ! !
`` can't you stop that stupid clowning for even a minute '' ? ?
`` or maybe you just don't feel like a cigar '' ? ?
now , are you going to take me or am i supposed to walk '' ? ?
on the other hand , howsomever , maybe you wouldn't either .
`` how -- with what ? ?
`` now , ain't it the truth '' ? ?
`` not a danged thing but rattlesnakes , so i reckon i'll get the boss rattler to help me '' .
for god's sake '' ! !
he pointed , cutting her off .
she saw it then , the distant derrick of the wildcat -- a test well in unexplored country .
sufficiently , at least , to get them back into town .
he had to depend on himself , since he was invariably miles and hours away from others .
`` what did you mean by that rattlesnake gag ? ?
`` why , i meant what i said '' , lord declared .
she looked at him , lips compressed .
in his mood , it was the best way to handle him ; ;
otherwise , she would be baited into a tantrum -- teased and provoked until she lost control of herself , and thus lost still another battle in the maddening struggle of tom lord vs. joyce lakewood .
lord whistled tunelessly as he fought the steering wheel .
along with this self-satisfaction , however , joyce sensed a growing tension .
joyce had seen him like this once before -- more than once , actually , but on one particularly memorable occasion .
tom had been laying for aaron mcbride for a long time , just waiting to catch him out of line .
he had a legitimate reason for wearing it .
moreover , as long as the weapon was carried openly , the sheriff's office had made no previous issue of it .
he demanded , when lord confronted him .
it was the wrong thing to say .
the trouble was that he had virtually had to protest .
so , `` how about it '' ? ?
`` why single me out on this permit deal '' ? ?
`` we aim t' be see-lective , y'know ? ?
figger we got to be plumb careful with any of you highlands big shots '' .
he himself had heard that there was gangster money in the company , but that had nothing to do with him .
`` look , lord '' , he said hoarsely .
you think that highlands swindled you and i helped 'em do it .
i'm no lawyer .
`` uh-huh .
so you get rid of that pistol right now , mis-ter mcbride .
mcbride couldn't do either , of course .
not without a face-saving respite of at least a few minutes .
oil-field workers were a rough-tough lot .
`` i'll get around to it a little later '' , he mumbled desperately .
`` huh-uh .
it was strictly the deputy's game , but mcbride had gone too far to throw in .
he flung off lord's hand and attempted to push past him , inadvertently shoving him into a storefront .
lord slugged him in the stomach , so hard that the organ almost pressed against his spine .
a rabbit punch redoubled him .
but he couldn't keep up with them .
he seemed to be fighting not one man but a dozen .
why , he's going to kill me , he thought wildly .
i've given willful hurt to no man .
beat me to death in front of a hundred people .
he , mcbride , would be cited as in the wrong , and he , lord , would go scot-free , an officer who had only done his duty , though perhaps too energetically .
fear-maddened , fleeing the lengthening shadow of death , he scrambled to his feet again .
he was long past the point of coherent thinking .
he could not grasp that lord had withdrawn from the fight minutes ago , and that his leaden arms were flailing at nothing but the air .
this , he was sure , was the way they would act ; ;
and nothing would be done about it .
donna ! !
donna was like he was .
and donna would --
the brannon outfit -- known as the slash-b because of its brand -- reached hondo creek before sundown .
two of the new hands , a mexican named jose amado and a kid known only as laredo , were picked for the first trick of riding night herd .
they got tin cups of coffee from the big pot on the coosie's fire , rolled and lighted brown-paper cigarettes , lounged about .
but they deliberately avoided the one subject that had them all curious : the failure of the boss's wife and son to join the outfit .
the cook , mateo garcia , had arrived there long before the herd .
he was readying a batch of sourdough biscuits for the dutch oven .
the maguire family was setting up a separate camp nearby .
hank had gathered wood for a cookfire , and his wife was busy at it now .
conchita nagged at the younger children , attempting without success to keep her thoughts off tom brannon .
he'd come alone , without his wife and child .
she wondered what had taken place in town , between him and his wife .
not that her mother knew what had happened , but they could speculate upon it .
`` pat , get out of that creek ! !
elena , you'll get mud all over your dress '' ! !
tomas , she called him -- as the mexican hands did .
whatever they are talking about ? ?
it bothered her that she probably would never know .
he would tell her not to pry into grownups' affairs -- as though she were a little kid like elena ! !
they were sitting on their heels , rider-fashion , over by the still empty calf wagon .
he held a cigarette in his right hand .
his face was clouded with unhappiness .
they were considering it gravely , neither seeming to like what he planned .
`` wait a little while .
give her time to miss you .
after all , you want the senora as much as you want the boy .
`` she won't change her mind '' , brannon said .
`` but after a time away from you .
`` a year , luis ? ?
ten ? ?
`` maybe in a year , tomas .
`` in a year she'll like living in clayton's house too much to come back to me '' , brannon said flatly .
i've got to take danny away from clayton before i lose him altogether .
`` but to take him and leave his mother behind is not good '' .
hernandez looked suddenly uncertain .
maybe i should withdraw my advice -- no '' ? ?
`` and you ? ?
hank shook his head .
like luis , i can't see something like this happening to me .
where i go , she goes -- and the kids with us .
and the boy will need his mother .
brannon shook his head .
but i'm going to have my son '' .
finally luis hernandez said , `` what must be , must be .
and hank maguire added , `` so am i , tom '' .
`` we'll ride out as soon as we've had chuck '' .
they had for cover both darkness and a summer storm .
later , they'd heard the rumble of thunder and then , just outside rockfork , they ran into rain .
the others put on old coats or ducking jackets , whichever they carried behind their saddle cantles .
it was to be nothing more than that .
if the bluff failed and they ran into trouble , brannon had told the others , they would withdraw -- and he would come after his son another time .
with him were hank maguire , luis hernandez , and luis's son pedro .
the seventh man was red hogan , a wiry little puncher with a wild streak and a liking for hell-raising .
it was dark early , because of the storm .
lighted windows glowed jewel-bright through the downpour .
a lamp burned inside , but brannon , peering through the window , saw that the office was empty .
`` probably just stepped out '' , he said .
red , come along .
with red hogan , he rode to the welcome cafe .
`` not there '' , he said , getting back onto his horse .
they rode to the rockfork house , a little farther along the opposite side of the street .
brannon had no slicker .
but he felt no physical discomfort .
he hardly noticed the blue-green flashes of lightning and the hard claps of thunder .
brannon dismounted and climbed the steps .
`` sitting with a cup of coffee now .
it seemed long , at least to tom brannon .
macklin was the third man to come out , and he came unhurriedly .
it was not until he moved across the porch that he became aware of them , and then it was too late .
`` just come along '' , brannon told him .
`` now , listen '' -- macklin began .
`` brannon , i warn you '' ! !
they escorted him down from the porch and through the rain to his office .
his face was stiff with anger when they let go of his arms .
`` i'll remember you '' , he said .
as for you , brannon '' --
`` now , hold on , damn it ; ;
red hogan's patience ran out .
`` too much fooling around '' , he said .
brannon said , `` now the key to the lockup , marshal '' .
macklin said .
`` can't you guess '' ? ?
`` we're putting you where you won't come to harm .
get it out '' ! !
brannon , you've assaulted a law officer and '' --
no man laid a hand on him , but the threat of violence was there .
he held out a moment longer , then his nerve gave under the pressure .
it's here in my pocket '' .
resignedly , macklin turned to the back door .
the door of the lockup was of oak planks and banded with strap iron .
macklin balked again , not wanting to unlock and open the door .
once the door was open , they crowded him inside the dark building .
they returned to the street , mounted their horses , rode through the rain to the big house on houston street .
deputy marshal luke harper still stood guard on the veranda , a forlorn , scarecrowish figure in the murky dark .
`` don't try it '' , brannon told him , dismounting and starting up the steps with his men following .
he strode past the now frightened man , entered the house .
the others followed brannon inside .
they brought to it all the odors that clung to men like themselves , that of their own sweat , of campfire smoke , of horses and cattle .
their presence fouled the elegance of that room .
the author of the anonymous notes seemed to be all-knowing .
but the day of the deadline came and passed , and the men who had scoffed at the warnings laughed with satisfaction .
the exception was an iron mountain settler named william lewis .
a split second later , the distant crack of a rifle had sounded .
but he had found all of the thickets and points of cover deserted .
lewis was a man who had made a full-time job of cow stealing .
his land had never been plowed .
he had received both first and second anonymous notices , and each time he had accused his neighbors of writing them .
he was a man , those neighbors testified later , who didn't have a friend in the world .
`` i'll be ready next time '' ! !
`` i'll be shootin' right back '' .
this time lewis had his own rifle in his hands , and he threw some answering fire back at the mysterious far-off shot , then spent most of the day searching out the area .
`` just let me meet up with that damned bushwhackin' coward face-to-face '' ! !
`` that's all i ask '' ! !
for the unseen , ghostlike rifleman aimed a little higher the third time .
he slumped against a log fence rail , then tried to lift himself .
an inquest was held , and after a good deal of testimony about the anonymous notes , the county coroner estimated that the shooting had been done from a distance of 300 yards .
it took some time to locate horn .
prosecutor baird immediately assumed he was hiding out there after the shooting and began preparing an indictment .
for tom horn , it turned out , had a number of rancher and cowboy witnesses ready and willing to swear with straight faces that he had been in bates hole the day of the killing .
the authorities had to release him .
`` dead center at three hundred yards , that coroner said '' ! !
`` three shots in that fella 'fore he hit the ground ! !
publicly , he denied everything .
for a blood-chilling ring of terror to the very sound of his name was the tool he needed for the job he'd promised to do .
a good many beef-hungry settlers were accepting the death of william lewis as proof that the warning notes were not idle threats .
but there were other homesteaders who passed the lewis murder off as a personal grudge killing , the work of one of his neighbors .
even in the very area where the shooting had been done , cattle were still disappearing .
`` fred was mighty crude about the way he took in cattle '' his own hired man , andy ross , mentioned later .
on the morning of september 10 , 1895 , powell and ross rose at dawn and began their day's work .
harnessing a team to a buckboard , they drove out to a willow-lined creek about a half-mile off , then climbed down and began chopping .
he looked around in surprise , then noticed that fred powell was clutching his chest .
`` my god , i'm shot '' ! !
and he collapsed and died instantly .
he heaved the dead man onto the buckboard , yelled and lashed at the team and got out of there fast .
a detailed scouring of the entire area revealed nothing beyond a ledge of rocks that might have been the rifleman's hiding place .
not even an empty cartridge case could be found .
once again , he shook his head , kept his face expressionless and his voice very calm , and had a strongly supported alibi ready .
`` exterminatin' cow thieves is just a business proposition with me '' , he'd blandly announce .
`` tom '' , a friend asked him once , `` how come you bushwhacked them rustlers ? ?
he had lots of friends , then as always .
no man's name brought more cheers when it was announced in a rodeo .
which would you be most scairt of -- a dry-gulchin' or a shoot-down '' ? ?
`` but well , it just don't seem sportin' somehow '' ! !
the tall sunburnt rustler-hunter stared in amazement .
he echoed again in soft wonder .
i found a trooper once the apache had spread-eagled on an ant hill , and another time we ran across some teamsters they'd caught , tied upside down on their own wagon wheels over little fires until their brains was exploded right out o' their skulls .
but there's one thing i never seen or heard of , one thing i just don't think there is , and that's a sportin' way o' killin' a man '' ! !
the lesson had been learned .
when fred powell's brother-in-law , charlie keane , moved into the dead man's home , the anonymous letter writer took no chances on charlie taking up where fred had left off and wasted no time on a first notice :
this was the message found tacked to the cabin door .
all through albany and laramie counties , other men were doing the same .
the small half-heartedly tended fields of men who'd spent more time rustling cattle than farming were lying fallow .
jury , judge and executioner were riding the range in the form of a single unknown figure that could materialize anywhere , at any time , to dispense an ancient brand of justice the men of the new west had believed long outdated .
it is possible , although highly doubtful , that he killed none at all but merely let his reputation work for him by privately claiming every unsolved murder in the state .
for that legend was growing explosively , rumor was insisting he received a price of $600 a man .
) rumor had it he slipped two small rocks under each victim's head as a sort of trademark .
)
the mere fact that the tall figure with the rifle and field glasses had been seen riding that way was enough to frighten three rustling homesteaders out of the upper laramie country in a single week .
he evidently couldn't foresee that it might be his downfall in the end .
but to the cattlemen who had been facing bankruptcy from rustling losses and to the cowboys who had been faced with lay-offs a few years earlier , he was becoming a vastly different type of legendary figure .
he made their spreads his headquarters , and he helped out in their roundups .
the hands and their bosses saw him as a lone knight of the range , waging a dedicated crusade against a lawless new society that was threatening a beloved way of life .
by 1898 , rustling losses had been driven down to the lowest level ever seen in wyoming .
`` i have a little job for you , charlie .
brenner's voice was oily , but summers wasn't fooled .
`` what is it you want me to do , mr. brenner '' ? ?
`` it's very simple .
tell her to come here to the hotel '' .
`` one thing , summers '' , brenner said .
tell her curt adams wants to see her '' .
`` i don't know , mr. brenner '' , he said haltingly , beginning to get an inkling of brenner's plans .
couldn't i just '' -- his voice trailed off into silence .
he turned and looked around at the lobby as though seeing things he hadn't before noticed .
`` eagle's nest ought to have a fire company .
he started toward the stairway , then turned to add , `` tell her to come to adams's room , that adams is in trouble .
`` yes sir '' .
curt's visit to the livery stable had been merely a precaution in case anyone should be watching .
the fact that jess's horse had not been returned to its stall could indicate that diane's information had been wrong , but curt didn't interpret it this way .
probably his horse would be close to where he was hiding .
curt approached the place cautiously , and watched it several minutes from the protection of a grove of trees .
curt circled the house and located a barn out back .
there was no lock on the door , only an iron hook which he unfastened .
again he stood in the darkness listening , but there was only the scrape of a shod hoof on a plank floor .
horse smell was very strong , and he could hear the crunch of grain being ground between strong jaws .
there were two horses in the barn , a sway-backed dun and jess crouch's buckskin .
it was certain now that jess was in the house , but also , presumably , was stacey black .
he studied the problem for a few seconds and thought of a means by which it might be solved .
the startled animal let out a terrified squeal and thrashed around in the stall .
he slapped the buckskin again and it kicked wildly , its hoofs rattling the side of the stall .
presently he heard footsteps crossing the yard , and jess's smothered curses .
''
curt doubted that any animal belonging to jess would find much reassurance in its owner's voice .
a match flared , and he reached above his head to light a lantern which hung from a wire loop .
`` before you try anything '' , he said .
jess caught his breath in surprise .
`` that's the stuff '' , curt said .
he reached out to pull the door shut and fasten it with a sliding bolt .
you won't be needing this '' .
`` damn you , adams '' -- jess was beginning to recover from his initial shock .
if i don't come back in the house , breed's going to '' --
about now he's probably having supper .
now turn around so i can see your face '' .
there was raw fury in his eyes , and the veins of his neck were swollen .
i don't know what you're up to , but when brenner '' --
`` it's ben arbuckle we're going to talk about '' .
jess stiffened .
`` no ? ?
one with blood all over it , arbuckle's blood '' .
`` so help me , crouch , i'd like to kill you where you stand , but , before i do , i'm going to hear you admit killing him .
who told you to do it ? ?
curt was holding jess's gun in his left hand .
pistol-whipping an unarmed man might come easy to someone like jess , but curt couldn't bring himself to do it .
`` having all the guns makes you a big man , don't it , adams ? ?
`` no '' ? ?
he retreated a step and holstered his own .
we're on even terms .
sweat bubbled out on jess's swarthy face .
curt , angry enough to be a little reckless , raised his hands shoulder high .
`` i ain't drawin' against you '' , jess said thickly .
i ain't a gunslinger '' .
you're the kind of bastard who sneaks up on a man from behind and hits him with a club .
jess stared at him without answering and let his hands fall to his sides .
somewhere in the distance , a woman screamed .
he had to make jess talk , and he had to do it before stacey black got curious and came to investigate .
he dropped his own beside it .
jess's coarse features twisted in a surprised grin which was smashed out of shape by curt's fist .
curt managed to duck beneath the man's flailing fist , and drove home a solid left to jess's mid-section .
pain shot up curt's arm clear to the shoulder , but jess seemed hardly aware that he had been hit .
an inch lower and it would have knocked him out .
when his eyes began to focus , he saw jess charging at him with a pitchfork .
jess wasted a few seconds trying to yank them loose .
the tines broke off under jess's twisting , and he swung the handle in an attempt to knock curt's brains out .
so the pitchfork whistled over curt's head .
he stepped inside jess's guard and landed two blows to the big man's belly , putting everything he had behind them .
when his head came down , curt grabbed him by the hair and catapulted him head first into the wall .
even black's old crowbait began to snort , and from the house black yelled , `` jess ! !
jess didn't seem too sure himself .
curt caught him flush on the nose with a blow which started at the floor .
blood gushed from his nose , and he backed off as rapidly as he could , stumbling over his own feet in his frantic haste to get away from curt's fists .
he backed jess into a corner , grabbed a handful of the man's shirtfront , and drew back his right fist .
you killed him , didn't you '' ? ?
`` he found out about you and arbuckle talking .
`` you mean anyone who stood up for his rights '' , curt said .
turning his back , curt crossed to the stall , reached over to untie the buckskin's halter rope , and waved his hand in the animal's face .
curt moved in and picked up his gun .
leaving jess's where it lay , he left the stall .
we're going someplace '' .
`` who's in there '' ? ?
curt opened the door , grabbed black by the shoulder , and pulled him into the barn .
this dirty coward just admitted killing arbuckle .
he shoved black toward the stall , and pointed his pistol at jess .
you're coming along peacefully , or i'll put a bullet in your leg '' .
curt followed , reaching behind him to shut the door and hook it .
`` where're you takin' me '' ? ?
`` we're going to marshal woods's house .
somebody in this town must still have some backbone '' .
`` honey '' , he whispered .
his wounds need dressing now '' .
what a spectacle he was , caked with dirt and sweat and blood , filthy as a pig and naked as an indian , kissing the finest , the sweetest , the bravest , and absolutely the prettiest girl in this whole wonderful world .
`` got a lot to tend to , but i'll get back quick as i can '' , he assured her .
jackson was doing most of the talking .
soon as the burnsides moved on , he'd lead rex down by the river ; ;
damn it , he thought bitterly , picking up his shirt and staring at the fresh bullet hole in the sleeve .
he stooped , picked up his ruined hat , and pursed his lips thoughtfully .
but his only hat was something else again .
nate '' ! !
the burnsides , now ready to roll , were purposefully deaf to his cry .
he bellowed to the retreating back directly in front of him .
nate turned his head , attempting to speak in a soothing voice .
dan affirmed , feeling ten feet tall .
`` here's a present for you '' , he said , shoving his bullet-riddled hat down over nate's purpling forehead .
sally left her choring to stand beside dan .
much as they had to look forward to , they didn't begrudge a moment of the time they spent seeing them go .
she had spent too many hours looking ahead , hoping and longing to catch even a glimpse of dan and finding nothing but emptiness .
seeing them waiting there at the foot of emigrant rock was so overwhelming that , for a good minute after they rounded the bend and started down the grade leading toward them , matilda could not speak at all .
pa ! !
and he's with the jacksons '' ! !
hez asked , who still believed they'd have them to lick .
she replied .
soon they were all shouting greetings , exchanging smiles , and rejoicing to think that they were all back together again .
nor could they stop and find out about all that had happened until they made circle , tended the cattle , tethered the horses , gathered fuel , carried water , and started their cooking fires .
no sooner did they hear of dan's injury than both gran and matilda went into immediate action .
from then on , in keeping with the traditions they had followed since childhood , the whole group settled down to relish their food .
after their supper , the evening turned into a regular `` hoe-down '' .
but with bill o'connor on the fiddle , and gran harrow exuberantly shouting `` glory be '' and `` hallelujah '' above their united chant of the lilting old ballads , they played their quaint folk games with all the fervor and abandon of a real celebration .
`` nor methodists , neither '' , she replied .
rod gave her a warm pat on the shoulder before he replied .
at these words of sympathy and understanding , harmony said generously , `` i don't mind setting here along with gran while you go out and join in the games '' .
he looked down at his big hands and slowly flexed his long fingers .
with rod on his way and matilda visiting with mrs. jackson while they searched out familiar names on the face of the cliff , harmony settled on the edge of the grub box , to ease the pressure of her swollen body on her bone-weary legs , and worried about all that might have happened to sally .
at the sight of sally's happy face and carefree expression , harmony's dark , brooding eyes quickly brightened with unshed tears .
and she really tried to go a step further and say she hoped they'd be just as right as they now were for her and for rod .
not with the memory of her folks and the lost conestoga still holding her close .
with a swift swoop of his big arms , he grabbed sally out of the circle surrounding him , and then kissed her soundly before setting her down so she could stand by his side while they jointly chose the rest of their `` outfit '' .
by now harmony could see that most of the adults in the train were winded and resting , or else siphoned off from the games by the challenging lure of the great cliff towering above them .
even strange names seemed to make them feel closer to some kind of civilization when stumbled across out here in this wilderness .
soon she saw rod and hez moving over to join them .
for matilda , it was the first she had known in many a night .
next morning , they moved on again .
gran harrow exclaimed , watching their rippling muscles as rod and dan swung her up into the load .
rod and dan released their holds on the arms of her hickory rocker and exchanged embarrassed grins .
`` that wasn't nothing at all '' ! !
`` how's sally like rubbin' agin that thar little ticklebrush ye're a-raising '' ? ?
`` i ain't ragging him '' ! !
`` but honest-to-betsy , i've seed more hair than that on a piece o' bacon '' .
`` rheumatics worse , pa '' ? ?
`` my right leg's stiff as a board this morning '' , he replied .
the three men stepped out to the side to wait for captain clemens' signal .
`` wonder what made them hurry so '' , rod drawled , giving dan a sly wink .
`` from now on , sally and me and her folks aim to give you our turn when it comes up and fall in behind you and rod's outfit '' .
`` sally and her ma want to trade off on account of harmony being so far along '' , dan explained .
he's got the tightest running gear in the train now .
captain clemens' signal shot sent the men hurrying to their waiting teams .
`` i'll shore be needing ye both on the pull out o' the canyon '' .
`` we'll double teams zigzagging up the mountain , harmony '' , he spoke reassuringly , concerned by the pinched look around her mouth .
out of the corner of his eye , he could see his father's wheels beginning to turn .
while no larger than dutch springs , this mining supply town had the appearance of being far busier and more prosperous .
although they were forced to maintain a sharper watch , this activity enabled them to ride in and rack their broncs without any particular attention being paid them .
there were no less than six or seven saloons in ganado , not counting the lower class dives , all vying for the trade of celebrating miners and teamsters .
`` take one side of the street , and i'll take the other '' , he proposed .
cobb's assent was tight .
it's all i ask , stevens '' .
russ visited two places without result and his blood pressure was down to zero .
he tramped out of the miners rest with his hopes plummeting , and headed doggedly for the palace saloon , the last place of any consequence on this side of the street .
behind its ornate facade the notorious dive clung like a bird's nest to the rocky ribs of the canyonside .
the front windows of the place were long and narrow , reaching nearly to the floor and affording an unusually good view of the interior .
nerves tight as a bowstring , he paused to gather his wits .
fierce anger surged through russ .
reaching the porch rail beyond view of the bar windows , he feverishly scanned the busy street below .
muffling an exclamation , russ sprang to the nearest steps and ran down .
`` what luck , cobb '' ? ?
russ pointed upward .
hitching his cartridge belt around , pat glanced upward briefly at the palace and started that way with cobb at his side .
pat pushed through first .
his eyes widened .
carmer himself was nowhere to be seen .
two men murmured with their heads together at the end of the bar , while the sleek-headed bartender absently polished a glass .
`` where yuh goin' '' ? ?
halting , pat turned to survey him deliberately .
less assured than the tall , wide-shouldered man in the lead , cobb followed alertly , a hand on his gun butt .
he said no more .
pat moved into it .
all the doors were open at this hour except one , and it was toward this that stevens made his way with russ close at his shoulder .
a single kick made it spring open , shuddering .
russ sprang through to bat it nimbly aside .
but he was more than half-drunk , and his faculties were dulled .
he started to struggle up , heaving desperately .
kneeling , cobb planted a sturdy knee in the small of his back , holding him pinned .
i've drawn his fangs '' , he snapped .
if we have to we'll take him apart and see what he's made of '' ! !
cobb watched this with hunted eyes , his desperate hope waning by the moment .
cobb got it .
`` look at this '' ! !
carmer's ingenious cache for his loot had been found .
you were right '' , russ exclaimed , tearing the loose bills out of carmer's hat .
pat grunted .
count what you've got there , cobb .
russ ran through the bills and named an amount it was highly unlikely any cowpuncher would come by honestly .
`` it's within a hundred of what crip had '' , he declared .
handing the money over , russ wiped his hands on his pants-legs as if ridding himself of something unclean .
`` shall we get out of here '' ? ?
glowering looks met them in the bar , but there was no attempt to halt them .
he and cobb clattered down the high steps to the street .
pat paused there , looking across at the young fellow .
he started to return it .
`` not me '' , he ruled decidedly .
it was you that tracked it down anyway , stevens '' , he pursued strictly .
`` whatever you say '' .
`` you owe it to penny to give her a chance to explain that she was defending you , really '' , he observed mildly .
`` he'll know when you tell him .
then maybe next time he won't be so quick on the trigger '' .
`` you're the doctor '' , he returned with a smile .
`` you don't have to tell me '' , flashed cobb .
pat let him go , following more leisurely .
the truth was , the puncher was both bewildered and dismayed by his own mixed luck .
yet had he not visited the girl at saw buck he would never have been involved in this latest tangle .
`` gyp carmer couldn't have known about colcord's money unless he was told -- and who else would have told him '' ? ?
`` it's the second time war ax hands made a play for that money .
nearing home , he jerked to attention at the distant crack of a gun .
but on the range gunfire had a meaning .
two minutes later it came again -- a double explosion , followed by a third , sounding more distant .
he tightened up in a twinkling .
what did it mean ? ?
his first glimpse of the ranch house across the brushy swells told him nothing .
setting a course straight for the house , he was covering ground fast when an angry bee buzzed past close to his face .
he knew now what he was up against .
cursing himself for having ridden out the last few days without a rifle in his saddle boot , russ drew his colt and examined it briefly .
`` over this way ! !
a harsh cry floated to him across the brush .
the would-be assassin had his position figured pretty close .
toward the west this depression led toward a draw .
swinging up then , and bending forward over the horn , he urged his mount down the meandering draw .
he had been sighted , and his attacker pumping shot after shot .
a slug had torn half of his stirrup-guard away .
another snarled close overhead .
at the first shot russ had hurled his mount to the left toward the side of the winding draw .
sweeping a look around , he saw that he was safe for the moment .
he dashed madly for the next elbow turn in the draw , and made it .
gradually the wash climbed upward , forcing him toward open range .
he clambered out of the dwindling wash , the loose dirt flying behind him , and flashed a look about .
and sweeney squadron put its first marks on the combat record .
cricket took eight ships and went south across the straits and along the north coast of mindanao to cagayan .
fleischman with eight was to patrol the leyte gulf area , with his main task to get any kamikaze before they got to the ships .
each plane carried two five-hundred pound bombs .
it was a rough long ride through the mud and pot holes .
the sky glowered down at them .
the truck dropped them off at the various revetments spread through the jungle .
his face was dark as the sky above it as he stood on the wing and waited for his pilot .
but his hands and those of donovan moved automatically adjusting and arranging in the check-out procedure .
`` but this goddamn climate .
`` we'll make out .
`` yeah .
the expression was his trade-mark , his open sesame to good luck , and his prayer that pilot and plane would always return .
from the time the chocks were pulled until the plane was out of sight , he knew donovan would keep his back to the strip .
yet long before the scheduled time for return , donovan would be watching for every speck in the sky .
the dark brown bombs hanging under each wing looked large and powerful .
the control tower gave him immediate take-off permission , and the clean roar of the engine that took him off the rough strip spoke well of the skill of donovan .
to the west , the dark green hills of leyte were lost in the clouds about halfway up their slopes .
water splashed against his windshield as he led the flight in and out of showers .
he possessed the fighter pilot's horror of bad weather and instrument flying , and he wondered , if the ceiling did drop , whether he and the other flights would be able to find their way back in this unfamiliar territory .
the overcast was solid above him .
they would have to go west through the narrow river valley that separated leyte from samar and hope that it didn't close in before they returned .
stay in close and we'll go up the valley '' .
greg took the formation wide around three a-26 attack bombers that were headed north over the gulf .
the valley was only a few hundred yards wide with just about room enough for a properly performed hundred-and-eighty-degree turn .
the ceiling stayed solid above them at about eight hundred feet , and at times the sheer cliffs seemed about to close in .
the formation remained perfect .
he spread the flight out and led them across a point of land and then down the coast .
once todman thought he had spotted a tank and went down to investigate while greg covered him .
todman said over the radio as he came back up in formation .
it was frustrating .
he thought once that he identified the somewhat hysterical voice of fleischman claiming a kill .
finally , as time began to run out , he headed into ormoc and glide-bombed a group of houses that intelligence had thought might contain japanese supplies .
there was not enough room to make the usual vertical bomb run .
one of greg's bombs hung up , and he was miles from the target before he could get rid of it .
with their load of bombs gone , the planes moved swiftly and easily .
mercifully , it was still open .
he was about to make a gas check on his flight when todman's voice broke in : `` sweeneys ! !
twelve o'clock level '' .
he saw them , specks against the gray , but closing fast .
friend or enemy ? ?
and only a few seconds to answer it .
todman said excitedly , and hopefully .
his mind flicked through the mental pictures he had from the hours of aircraft identification .
if it were the enemy , tactically his position was correct .
his present maximum altitude , up against the overcast , gave him the opportunity to exploit his advantages .
but the closing aircraft showed no sign of deviating from their original course .
he pushed the radio button .
lots of throttle .
i'll take the middle .
if they're japs .
the planes , light with most of the gas burned out , responded beautifully .
the opposing aircraft continued to come on .
greg wished the air corps had continued to camouflage planes .
it was a box .
greg pushed the radio button again .
if any of us miss , they can pick up the pieces .
the shapes were unmistakable and the rising suns were showing up , slightly brighter pinpoints in the gray gloom .
the circle with the dot in the center showed up yellow on the reflector glass in front of him .
`` arm your guns , sweeneys '' .
they're japs '' , came a high-pitched voice .
one pass only .
you'll bust your ass in this canyon .
he moved the flights over against one wall .
if the turn was too tight , a barrel roll would bring them out .
greg slammed his throttle to the fire wall and rammed up the rpm , and the engine responded as if it had been waiting .
`` they haven't seen us '' , greg yelled to himself over the engine noise .
he hit the radio button .
he hauled back on the stick and felt his cheeks sag .
perfect , he thought .
just like shooting at a duck while performing a half-gainer from a diving board .
his nose up .
eight aircraft in this small box .
he took a lead on the enemy , using a distance of five of the radii in his circular sight and then added another .
it did not seem possible that they hadn't been spotted .
now ! !
the plane rumbled and slowed .
as if drawn by a wire the enemy flew into them .
luck was with him .
the jap's propeller flew off in pieces .
it was all greg had time to see .
his speed was dropping rapidly .
wingman , stay clear , he prayed .
he fought the panic of vertigo .
he held the controls where they had been .
his air speed dropped until he thought he would spin out .
cool air moving slowly through the open or smashed-out side windows hinted of blooming roadside vegetation , and occasionally a faint fragrance of perfume swirled from the back seat .
we were coming to an intersection , turning right , chuffing to a stop .
`` gracias .
i waved with discretion and moderation to the vague golden faces fading through rising dust and the distortions of the back window glass .
gauche rainbow shapes replaced the poignant ovals of gold .
white-shirted and conservatively-cravated drivers stared conspicuously toward the eastern horizon and past my supplicating and accusing gaze .
`` mor-ee-air-teeeee '' , he shrieked , his white teeth grossly counterpointing those of the glittering blonde .
damn his luck .
still nursing anger i listlessly thumbed a car that was slowly approaching , its pre-war chrome nearly blinding me .
just as i straightened up with my duffel bag , i heard : `` sahjunt yoorick , meet mrs. major j. a. roebuck '' .
squeezing a look between johnson's fat jowls and the car frame a handsome and still darkhaired lady inquired `` y'all drahve '' ? ?
`` onleh one thiihng '' , mrs. roebuck continued .
but corporal johnson has alreadeh said it didn make no diffrunce t'hi-im '' .
how far i knew will shortly become apparent .
i let up on the accelerator , only to gradually reach again the 60 m.p.h. which would , i hoped , overhaul herry and the blonde , and as there were cars whose drivers apparently had something more important to catch than had i , mrs. major roebuck settled down to practicing on corporal johnson the kittenish wiles she would need when making her duty call on colonel and mrs. somebody in sante fe .
mrs. roebuck smilingly declined and began suddenly to go on about her son , who was `` onleh a little younguh than you bawhs '' .
mrs. roebuck thought johnson was a `` sweet bawh t'lah lahk thet '' , but her herman was getting to be a man , there was no getting around it .
just as p'lite an -- an cohnfidunt , an ah says ' uh coahse you cain't ' , but he says ' whah nawt , you ah hevin one ' ? ?
`` no , i don't '' , johnson said .
mrs. roebuck very kindly let me drive through sante fe to a road which would , she said , lead us to taos and then raton and `` eventshahleh '' out of new mexico .
and re-echo .
`` get in , buddies .
the straight , black hair flopped in a vigorous nod , the slender nose plunged toward glass teeth and drew safely back .
`` in back , buddy '' , the driver said to me .
it flopped down , sprang back up and gouged my shin .
i seized the rack and made a western-style flying-mount just in time , one of my knees mercifully landing on my duffel bag -- and merely wrecking my camera , i was to discover later -- my other knee landing on the slivery truck floor boards and -- but this is no medical report .
maybe i would beat old herry to siberia after all .
something pulled my leg .
but it was only johnson reaching around the wire chicken fencing , which half covered the truck cab's glassless rear window .
`` hell , yes '' , i roared back between dusty lips .
did an anteater want ants ? ?
gracias '' , i hollered , my first long swallow filling me with confidence and immediately doubling the size of my spanish vocabulary .
i wouldn't have known the difference .
white teeth suddenly vanishing , the driver slammed the side of his bottle against johnson's ear .
i ducked just as the first strand broke somewhere down the line and came whipping over the sideboards .
prairie dogs were popping up and popping down .
just as i got to my knees , there was again the sound of the fence stretching , and i had time only to start taking my kneeling posture seriously .
we were back on the road .
johnson's left hand was pressed against the side of his head , red cheeks whitening beneath his fingers .
`` that was tee-wah i was talking .
i nodded .
`` drink your beer '' .
no sooner had i started drinking than the driver started zigzagging the truck .
i drank furiously .
emptied the bottle .
i bobbed my head each time it appeared .
a big car was approaching , its chrome teeth grinning .
the car was just about to us , its driver's fat , solemn face intent on the road ahead , on business , on a family in sante fe -- on anything but an old pick-up truck in which two human beings desperately needed rescue .
high , so it would only bounce harmlessly but loudly off the car's steel roof .
on unoccupied roadway the bottle shattered into a small amber flash .
the indian was again raising his bottle , but to my astonished relief -- probably only a fraction of johnson's -- the bottle this time went to the indian's lips .
i started looking on the splintery truck bed for a piece of board , a dirt clod -- anything i could throw and with better aim than i had thrown the beer bottle .
in the ditch sand was white and soft-looking , only an occasional pebble discernible , faintly gleaming .
the car was approaching fast .
with more time i could have loosened a small burr or cotter pin --
there was no time to pick out a penny ; ;
there was a blur just under my focus of vision , a crash ; ;
i heard the screech of brakes behind me , an insane burst of laughter beneath me .
`` s-s-sahjunt '' .
two cars came over a crest , their chrome and glass flashing .
brakes shrieked behind us .
this time there was no sound of brakes but the shrieking of women .
`` drink , you son of a bitch '' ! !
but the indian was jabbing another bottle toward johnson .
she sat quietly , staring at me from the wide eyes .
big and dark , a melting , golden brown .
plus flawless skin , smooth brow and cheeks , lips that looked as if you could get a shock from them .
i said , `` do we know each other , miss '' ? ?
`` i'm sorry .
she smiled .
but worth waiting for .
i said .
she was still hugging the stained coat around her , so i said , `` relax , let me take your things .
`` no , thanks '' .
she was wearing nothing beneath the coat .
there had been a good second or two during which my muffler had been blowing out , and now i was certain i'd seen her somewhere before .
she yelped .
i'm sorry '' ! !
`` that's what started all the trouble in the first place .
`` you and me both , dear .
i mean , surely we've '' --
`` i've done several filmed commercials for '' --
`` zing '' ! !
`` why , yes .
`` yes , indeed .
man , you rang -- it was in color , too , miss , and miss ? ?
ah , you were splendid '' .
`` splendid .
`` that's the last one we did .
`` i'll bet .
i don't mean to pry , but do they hide the swimsuit with the bubbles ? ?
`` it depends on who does it .
it wouldn't -- wouldn't seem fair , somehow '' .
`` i really do have something important to tell you , mr. scott .
`` murder ? ?
`` tell me about the murder '' .
zing was the creation of two men , louis thor and bill blake , partners in zing ! !
they'd peddled the soap virtually alone , and without much success , until about a year ago , when -- with the addition of `` sx-21 '' to their secret formula and the inauguration of a high-powered advertising campaign -- sales had soared practically into orbit .
my lovely caller -- joyce holland was her name -- had previously done three filmed commercials for zing , and this evening , the fourth , a super production , had been filmed at the home of louis thor .
the finished -- and drastically cut -- product would begin with a hazy longshot of joyce entering the suds , then bursting above the pool's surface clad in layers of lavender lather , and i had a hunch this item was going to sell tons and tons of soap ; ;
joyce went on , `` when we'd finished , lou -- mr. thor -- asked me to stay a little longer .
everybody left and i stayed in the pool , then lou came back alone and leaped into the pool too .
`` he didn't '' ! !
did , i mean '' .
`` did leap into the pool , and didn't have anything on .
`` you got away , didn't you '' ? ?
he caught up with me once and grabbed me , but i was all covered with zing -- it's very slippery , you know '' .
i wouldn't have the stuff in the house .
`` so i just scooted out of his clutches .
the keys were still in it , and i was miles away before i remembered that my clothes and purse and everything were still in the little cabana where i'd changed '' .
while several yards from it , still concealed by the shrubbery , she'd seen two men on her left at the pool's edge .
`` a man was holding onto lou , holding him up .
the man shoved him into the water , then ran past the cabana .
i was so scared well , i just ran to my car and came here '' .
`` no , i never did see his face .
but i'm sure the other one was lou '' .
she realized i'd have to notify the police , but fervently hoped i could avoid mentioning her name .
but if joyce got involved in murder or salacious scandal , the role would probably go to the sponsor's wife , mrs. oatnut grits .
`` and i so want the part '' , she said .
i could show what i can do '' .
but i promised joyce i would mention her name , if at all , only as a last resort .
there i got my colt special and shoulder harness , slipped my coat on , and went back into the front room .
`` i'm starting to itch '' , she said .
`` yes , i'm still all covered with that soap .
mmmm , it sure itches '' .
`` oh , i'd love to '' .
that always relaxes me .
`` only when i do it '' .
one of my virtues or vices is a sort of three-dimensional imagination complete with sound effects and glorious living color .
it'll probably be at least an hour or two before i can check back with you .
i looked at my watch .
time to go , i supposed .
`` goodbye .
`` oh , you can count on that '' .
softly .
`` don't hurry too much .
that was all she said .
however , when there's a job to be done , i'm a monstrosity of grim determination , i like to think .
as i went out , i could hear water pouring in the shower .
she wouldn't be taking a cold shower .
bryn mawr drive is only two or three miles from the spartan , and it took me less than five minutes to get there .
four cars were parked at the curb , and two of them were police radio cars .
i followed a shrubbery-lined gravel path alongside the house to the pool .
at the pool's far end was the little cabana joyce had mentioned , and on the water's surface floated scattered lavender patches of limp-looking lather .
lieutenant rawlins , one of the plain-clothesmen , spotted me and said , `` hi , shell '' , and walked toward me .
i grinned , but ignored the question .
rawlins worked out of central homicide and we'd been friends for years .
a call to the police had been placed from here a couple of minutes after nine p.m. , and the first police car had arrived two or three minutes after that -- 10 minutes ago now .
neither of them , i understood , had been present at the filming session earlier .
i asked rawlins .
`` yeah , i've heard more about sx-21 than space exploration lately .
`` how would i know ? ?
that was the new advertising angle -- something about a lloyd's of london policy to insure the secrecy of the secret ingredient .
i said , `` o.k. , so now only blake knows .
`` can't say yet .
the pm might show he drowned instead , but that's what the once-over-lightly gives us .
`` i'll pick murder .
`` according to rose , he arrived here a couple minutes before nine and spotted thor in the water , got a hooked pole from the pool-equipment locker and started hauling him out .
this is not so , for education offers all kinds of dividends , including how to pull the wool over a husband's eyes while you are having an affair with his wife .
those who wrote them knew people and what made people tick .
the arrangement i had with him was to work four hours a day .
i had a one-room studio which overlooked an ancient courtyard filled with flowers and plants , blooming everlastingly in the southern sun .
when my uncle offered me a part-time job which would take care of my normal expenses and give me time to paint i accepted .
i loved the city and i particularly loved the gaiety and spirit of mardi gras .
and , when you took a walk you never knew what adventure or pair of sparkling eyes were waiting around the next corner .
it was as if they could hardly wait to get into their costumes , cover their faces with masks and go adventuring .
sometimes i wondered vaguely what he did about women for my aunt , by blood , had died some years ago , but neither of us said anything .
they were married over the week-end , though he was easily sixty and she could not have been even thirty .
it was really a may and december combination .
there was something about the contour of her face , her smile that was like new orleans sunshine , the way she held her head , the way she walked -- there was scarcely anything she did which did not fascinate me .
the calf was magnificent , the ankle perfect .
the true artist is like one of those scientists who , from a single bone can reconstruct an animal's entire body .
and that is the way i first saw her when my uncle brought her into his antique store .
i was aware that when our eyes met we both quickly averted them .
true , she was my aunt , married to an uncle related to me only by marriage , but why she had married a man twice her age , and more , perhaps , i did not know or much care .
her form was silhouetted and with the strong light i could see the outlines of her body , a body that an artist or anyone else would have admired .
something clicked in this instance , but i treated her circumspectly and i felt that she knew it , for we both kept our distance .
and then i became aware that she , too , glanced at me surreptitiously .
i dismissed these feelings as wishful thinking but i could not get it out of my head that we had a strong physical attraction for one another and we both feared to dwell on it because of our relationship .
you have probably experienced this .
why she married him i do not know .
he already had that slow pace that comes over the elderly , while she herself had all the signs of one who appreciates the joys of living .
or maybe she liked men old enough to be her father ; ;
for several weeks we eyed one another almost like sparring partners , and then one day uncle was slightly indisposed and stayed home ; ;
i was waiting in front of it when she showed up and told me of my uncle's indisposition .
the cavernous depth , cluttered with antiques , echoed to her hard heels as she walked directly to the office in the rear and took the seat at his desk .
i was aware of a humid look in her eyes that told me the time was opportune .
i was standing beside her , watching the outspread palms and wondering about the old horsehair sofa against the wall on which he sometimes napped .
her mouth , which had been so much in my thoughts , was warm and moist and tender .
it did not take me long to slip the bolt securely and return to the rear and its couch .
`` he will not always be indisposed '' .
i was thinking about that .
`` i don't know '' , she said .
you figure it out .
`` i guess we both felt it '' .
`` i guess so '' , she said .
even as i said it i realized that an education can be invaluable .
`` tell him i made a pass at you '' .
`` what are you trying to do ? ?
if i even hint at it do you think it will matter that you are his nephew -- and not even a blood nephew '' ? ?
i think i have a way so we can carry on without his suspecting us '' .
she said incredulously .
i don't even remember who wrote it but it was one of those 15th or 16th century poets .
and now i think we can use the knowledge they passed on to us .
a lot of people will roam the streets in costumes and masks , and having a ball .
if you tell him i made a pass at you he might think you misunderstood something i said or did , so instead of just telling him i made a pass , say i tried to date you and that you agreed so you could prove to him what a louse i really am .
and to prove what you tell him about me you suggest that he keep the date instead .
he could use your clothes for a costume and a heavy veil for a mask .
`` but you '' -- she began .
it will turn out all right '' .
`` are you trying to cut your throat '' ? ?
as we expected , on the following day my uncle was completely recovered and opened the store as usual at 10 in the morning .
i quit work at my usual hour as if this day was no different from other days .
shortly before nine i drove my jalopy to the street facing the lake and parked the car in shadows far enough away from the rendezvous corner but near enough to keep the corner in clear view .
i must say the figure was well made up .
in one hand he gripped firmly a parasol though there had been no indication of rain .
in the half darkness i approached cautiously , making sure he did not see me .
`` you cheap bitch '' ! !
`` you cheap , no good , two-timing bitch ! !
-- and you fall for a pass by his own nephew ! !
-- be ashamed of yourself .
he opened the myth book again and there ( along the margin next to robert graves' imaginative interpretation of the creation of the dactyls from rhea's fingertips ) were the names of four munich bars and meredith wilder's address .
the code , which had probably something to do with sex or some other interest , nicolas was determined to find out and put to use .
nicolas called on his muse , a line came back :
that ought to draw a laugh , nicolas reasoned , as he stored the line away on the wax tape that was his mind .
five days later , on receiving it , meredith sat drumming his dactyls on his writing table .
he inwardly cried .
the voice crying in him was the voice of guilt .
he had returned to the pension a week ago .
he was determined to spend an industrious summer .
meredith's fingers slowed and stopped over a line before him : sie lacheln , die schwarzen hexen .
or , more rhythmically , ' the swarthy witches are laughing ' ? ?
but nicolas , too , was being interrupted , that morning .
but by a blond girl in a sweater and skirt who stood a few yards off and tenderly regarded him .
she didn't have the heart .
she was just not able to break the spell .
nicolas : `` look , nicolas doesn't go to bed with boys -- no sex , see ? ?
ballet dancer : protests , tears , and `` take what you want , nicolas , i am a dancer , you are a poet , it is all beautiful '' .
and , as a matter of fact , nicolas had slept in the park only part of one night , when he discovered that munich's early mornings even in summer are laden with dew .
he used the blanket for late morning naps when hosts of the night had gone off to jobs and proved reluctant to leave him in their small rooms with their few possessions .
) her nicolas lay curled in the sun like a fawn , black hair falling over his eyes .
this was surely a reunion in art , it was all that poetry promised .
his advice , his voice saying his poems , the fact that he had not so much as touched her -- on the contrary , he had put his head back and she had stroked his hair -- this was all new .
the next day he was gone .
even so , it took her several days to force walter to tell her nicolas's whereabouts .
she had arrived this morning and come straight to the english gardens .
`` how like him '' ! !
`` his address '' , walter added , `` is that great foundling home , the american express .
'' for the last half hour mary jane had criss-crossed half the length of the gardens and , at last , come upon her knight .
she set down her suitcase .
no .
the sun grew hotter as it approached the midday .
he began sweating .
he half woke and rolled over with his face in the cooler grass .
he sneezed .
he spit .
he belched , he stretched .
twenty minutes later she was at the desk of the grafin's pension , her tears dried , signing a hotel form and asking for a bath .
she had retreated to this world .
families are very interesting .
but a young american has a bath next to his room and i shall ask him if you might use it this once .
'' ( the grafin was partial to the word shall .
meredith was irritated when the grafin knocked at his door and told him , `` she is a great beauty ! !
actually , she is a sad beauty , i believe .
rather erotically he listened to the bath water running ; ;
before dinner , he shaved for the second time that day .
singing into the mirror and his interested eyes , he was pleased to note , when he stripped for his own bath , that he still had the best part of his italian sun tan .
in the small gallery used as the guests' dining room , meredith sat down at his place and , as always , began teasing the young waitress .
it would be literary license calculated to glamorize life to say that he , oh , dropped his napkin , so startled was he by mary jane's beauty .
mary jane had made very little effort .
her white blond hair was clean and brushed long straight down to her shoulders .
she had touched her face , truly a noble and pure face , only with a lip salve which made her lips glisten but no redder than usual .
as she was rather tired this evening , her simple `` thank you for the use of your bath '' -- when she sat down opposite him -- spoken in a low voice , came across with coolnesses of intelligence and control .
soup : `` only this morning '' ; ;
; ;
; ;
a smile .
like as if it were built of books '' .
opening these he brought out a schnapps bottle and small gold thimble-sized glasses hidden inside it .
`` those sweet girls ? ?
it tastes a little like poppyseed .
steinhager '' she whispered steinhager to herself , several times , memorizing it .
meredith's voice was always deep , with rough bass notes in it ; ;
his new poem , a love poem , told of a young husband leading his wife upstairs to the bedroom when the lights in the house have failed .
) but he read on .
mary jane took the page from him and began reading it , moving her lips with the words .
i can never pronounce it '' .
the third time rather urgently .
she raised her face and nodded , `` it's sweet , and very sad '' .
they finished the small bottle of steinhager .
she began to explain , `` there was this poet , in italy '' he interrupted , `` please don't judge all poets '' .
at her door , two or three hours later , mary jane whispered , `` everyone is asleep '' .
the third time rather urgently .
they were west of the sabine , but only god knew where .
molten glare singed their eyelids an angry crimson ; ;
dust choked their throats and lay like acid in their lungs .
ben prime extended his high-stepped stride until he could lay his goad across the noses of the oxen .
he commanded from his raw throat , and felt the pain of movement in his cracked , black burned lips .
he spat .
he moved back to the wheel and stood there blowing , grasping the top of a spoke to still the trembling of his played-out limbs .
he cleared his throat and wet his lips .
he unlashed the dipper and drew water from a barrel .
the water was warm and stale and had a brackish taste .
thank the lord , they still had water ! !
he took a long but carefully controlled draught .
she took it grudgingly , her dark eyes baleful as they met his .
she set the dipper on the edge of the deck , leaving it for him to stretch after it while she looked on scornfully .
she asked smolderingly .
her thick hair was the color and texture of charcoal .
and all the time , she had the heat of hatred in her , like charcoal that is burning on its under side , but not visibly .
`` there must be some water under there '' .
`` we can get it if we dig '' , he said patiently .
she scoffed .
`` we can boil it '' , he said .
`` we're lost and burning up already '' , she bit out tensely .
they'll roll off in another day .
you don't even know where we're headed '' .
somewhere , we'll hit a trail '' .
'' she repeated .
his wide mouth compressed .
he had picked out this pathless trail , instead of the common one , in a moment of romantic fancy , to give them privacy on their honeymoon .
it wasn't the roughness and crudity and discomfort of the trip that had frightened her .
actually , she had hated him before she ever saw him .
the bitterness of their wedding night still ripped within him like an open wound .
he had left her inviolate , thinking familiarity would gentle her in time .
he stared at the dipper , turning it over and over in his wide , calloused hands .
`` don't try to be noble '' ! !
`` they wouldn't have sold me in the first place if there'd been food enough to go around '' .
`` hettie , they didn't sell you '' , he said miserably .
they thought it would be a chance for you to make a life out where nobody will be thought any better than the next except for just what's inside of them .
`` i might have starved , but at least i wouldn't be fried to a crisp and soaked with dirt '' ! !
his blue eyes sought the shimmering sea of haze ahead .
the valley lay clear , and open to the eye , right up to the sharp-limbed line of gaunt , scoured hills that formed the horizon twenty miles ahead .
he had never seen clouds like them before , but he had the primitive feel of danger that gripped a man before a hurricane in carolina .
and goaded the oxen as he yelled .
too late , he realized that in turning , he had wheeled them onto a patch of sandy ground , instead of atop a grade or ridge .
`` you had better get inside '' , he warned her .
the clouds bulged downward and burst suddenly into a great black funnel .
the six-ton conestoga began to whip and shake .
it was filled with dust and wind and sound and violence .
and then came the water -- not rain , but solid sheets that sluiced down like water slopping from a bucket .
through the splash of the rising waters , they could hear the roar of the river as it raged through its canyon , gnashing big chunks out of the banks .
the dangerous current upon the prairie ceased , but the water stood and kept on rising .
the cloudburst cut off abruptly .
then the darkness thinned , and there was light again , and then bright sunlight .
the water level was higher than their hubs .
there was no real sign of the river now , just a roiling , oily ribbon of liquid movement through muddy waters that reached everywhere .
now and then , the glistening side of a half-swamped object showed as it swept past .
her face was pale but set and her dark eyes smoldered with blame for ben .
at least , the wheels dug in .
his wife didn't give a sign she'd heard .
somebody was riding the tree .
she did not call out .
they watched the tree until it twisted sharply on a bend .
the pale blob of the woman disappeared .
the girl murmured harshly .
then he took off his wet boots and dropped down into the water to talk with the beasts , needing their comfort more than they needed his .
he let down the tailgate and was knocked over by the sluice of water .
they were already swollen to bursting .
it was spoiled now for seed , and it would sour and mold in three days if they failed to find a place and fuel to dry it .
he examined the water marks on the iron tires when the animals were finished .
there was not a match-width of damp mark to show they were receding .
a terrible , numbing sense of futility swept over him .
then he noticed that the dry wood of the wheels had swollen .
hope surged within him .
still , he felt better .
he got a small fire started and put on bacon and coffee .
their jams and jellies had not suffered .
now he broke them open , hoping a good meal might lessen this depression crushing hettie .
he furled the slashed sides of the canvas tarpaulins , leaving the ribs and wagon open .
he said hesitantly , `` hettie , i don't figure your things got wet too much .
if you want to get them aired ''
he drew a long breath and opened the trunk and hung out her clothes and spoilables upon the wagon ribs .
i suppose a lascar sailor had sneaked a cigarette in the hold and touched off the blaze .
the lifeboats were stuck fast .
i heard a cry from a stoker as a pillar of flame leaped from a hatch and tongued the man's bare back .
one especially bad detonation shook lifeboat no. 3 which trembled violently in the davits .
heave on those ropes ; ;
we pulled and swore and yanked and wept , scraping our hands until they bled profusely .
her stern was down and a sharp list helped us to cut loose the lifeboat which dropped heavily into the water .
`` that tub is going to explode all at once '' .
dimly , we heard the voices of men in mortal agony but we couldn't go back into that inferno .
`` sommers , you bale while we row '' , brassnose commanded .
three days previously , we had steamed past barren rennell island in the distance .
there were gigantic blisters and rope burns on our hands ; ;
brassnose was strangely silent .
he then said something which struck a chord in my memory .
we'd be in real trouble then .
i was puzzled by the remark , then i recalled the voice of mild professor howard griggs three years ago in a university lecture on primitive societies .
`` even when the islands were under german mandate before world war 1 , , europeans gave eromonga a wide berth .
i remembered , too , the jesting voice of a classmate , bobby pauson : `` but how do they reproduce , dr. griggs ? ?
there had been classroom guffaws which quickly subsided as professor griggs said dryly : `` i see your point , pauson .
indeed , you wouldn't live long , for the females either drive the men they've seized from neighboring islands back to their boats after exploiting them for amatory purposes , or they destroy them by revolting but ingenious methods .
`` i think i know what you mean , brassnose '' , i said .
but we didn't .
foster lukuklu frayne made a sign over his heart with his two linked thumbs : i recognized it as an ancient manu gesture intended to propitiate the devil .
we had drifted closer .
`` tchalo ! !
i squinted at the looming shoreline .
it was perhaps 80 feet high and had been artfully constructed of logs .
`` what is the scaffolding for , brassnose '' ? ?
it was embarrassing to see strapping , blonde brassnose comport himself like a child who talks about bogeymen .
it is their tultul , the ' jumping platform ' of death .
often , i heard my uncles and cousins speak of it when i was a small boy growing up in rabaul .
our lifeboat was filling rapidly and despite what i had heard of the inhabitants of eromonga , i was glad to see a long and graceful outrigger manned by three bronzed girls glide out of a lagoon into the open sea and toward our craft .
but he had turned a sickly green and appeared tongue-tied or panicked .
in ngandlu .
we are thirsty and hungry ; ;
the girl in the prow of the outrigger turned a smile like a beacon on me .
she said , `` my name is songau and these girls are ponkob and piwen .
my people await you on the shore .
thirty minutes later , the outrigger grated on sand and other girls , waiting on shore , rushed forward to pull it up on the beach and make it fast with vine ropes to a large boulder .
i looked .
there was a mound of bleached human bones and skulls at the base of the big wooden derrick .
others still had whitened shreds of decayed flesh sticking to them .
this was also a corpse -- a male , judging from the coral arm bands , the tribal scars still discernible on the maggoty face , the painted bone of the warrior caste which still pierced the septum of the rotting nose .
i looked with revulsion at the legs .
many small bones protruded crazily from the shreds of flesh .
as if divining my thoughts , the girl songau smiled warmly and said in the casual tone an american woman might use in describing her rose garden :
later , you shall know it better .
our old one blew down in a storm at the time of the pokeneu festival fifteen moons ago .
we are very proud of it '' .
he looked as if he was going to keel over .
not so soon , anyway .
he speaks your language too , for he is the grandson of a chieftain on taui who made much magic and was strong and cunning .
this was the worst thing i could have said .
they despise males who brag of their strength ; ;
you've ruined me , blast you '' ! !
but a glance at songau and the other women confirmed what brassnose had blurted out .
at a nod from songau , four lithe and muscular girls darted to frayne's side and seized him by the arms .
but four eromonga women are more than a match for the strongest male that ever lived .
my last impression as they led him off to a stockade was of his pale face
in the manu tongue , `` eromonga '' means manhood -- a quality which the women derisively toasted in weekly feasts at which great quantities of a brew like kava were imbibed .
her name was l'turu and she told me many things .
though i had a great dread of the island and felt i would never leave it alive , i eagerly wrote down everything she told me about its women .
)
but in the middle of the last century an island woman named `` karipo '' seized a spear in the heat of an inter-tribal battle and rallied the women after their men had fled .
karipo was something of a politician as well as a militarist .
within a decade or less , few men were left and a feminist society had sprung up .
`` all men went away from here .
few passed '' .
`` karipo's women then named this place ' eromonga ' -- manhood -- for just the strongest men could stay here .
the old woman arose stiffly and led me to a clearing where a small hut stood .
`` i guess he spent the morning getting himself all organized , then headed for home .
benson looked up and saw ramey's long head tilt forward to rub his chin on the stiff edge of the overall bib .
`` i'd like to know just which it is that those guys don't understand , the liquor or automobiles '' .
for a moment his hatred toward drunken or careless drivers softened .
maybe he was only doing the best he knew how , like any of us .
`` ever see yourself spread out on the pavement , benny '' ? ?
`` you mean dream '' ? ?
just see it '' .
`` nope , just you , all the time -- sometimes i think it's the only way i'll ever get a decent partner '' .
never benny .
then he would realize they were really things that only he himself could think .
`` you seen him yet '' ? ?
`` he wasn't in the car '' , ramey said .
`` if you want to see something , he's back on the other side by the trunk of the car '' .
a few minutes later the insurance man , a road checker , drove up in the gray coupe with license plates on it from a far-away state .
sometimes they just parked at the side of the road and used radar on the trucks as they passed .
horsely , an agent on the east end , wore the hat , trying to look like a tourist .
the insurance man informed them that he had talked to crumley who was all right and that he would watch the men's personal effects until they towed the rig back to town .
every so often the diminishing sound of a car came under the trailer as it slowed down for the wreck then speeded up again as it got clear .
`` there's a body you won't mind looking at '' , benson said and they stopped .
she wore shorts and a loose terry-cloth shirt .
`` what outfit does she drive for '' ? ?
seeing her caused a lurch in ramey , a recognition .
he had never seen her before , but now he thought of the manner in which he and benson went in and out of the cities , at each end of their run .
how would you ever see her again ? ?
their work was lonely .
benson said , and ramey wondered how close their thoughts might have been .
her glance swung past the trailer where the two drivers were standing .
she began to watch a blonde-haired man , also in shorts , standing right at the rear of the wrecked car in the one spot that most of the crowd had detoured slightly .
the girl took a couple of steps toward the man in shorts when benson , in that barefoot courtliness ramey could never decide was real , said , `` you don't want to go around there , ma'am '' .
the man stood near the bent levi-clad body of the indian who lay face down almost under the car .
`` what does he want , a spoon '' ? ?
one tiny detail in a happening can clog the memory and stick like meat in a crooked tooth , while the rest of the occurrence will go hazy and uncertain .
the laces were broken at the bottom of the eyelets but there was still a bow knot at the top .
the two men in overalls stood just behind the blonde-headed man .
he turned and looked at them with clear blue eyes , immaculate eyes .
`` he's dead , isn't he '' ? ?
he turned and bent over the body of the indian .
it was simply a matter of curiosity , a natural right to examine .
the man said , backing up a step , still looking down .
`` don't '' .
ramey looked down and saw the white sneaker at the bottom of the man's tanned leg cautiously nudge a bit of folded , blood-flecked substance lying by itself on the pavement .
the man said with a tone of impatience .
the man had spoken only once .
the sneaker reached out once more to tap against the mass and ramey's vision darkened except for an unreasonable clarity of the man's leg .
he stared at the shining , shining circles of hairs and heard the voice of his partner through trees , `` don't do that , fella .
the man seemed to sink a little as ramey brought the tire iron down on his shoulder and it seemed that the blonde head was turning as he hit the man again , with his fist .
it was a straight , solid , once-in-a-lifetime shot ; ;
ramey's fist and the air expelled from the man's collapsing cheek made a hollow pop in the air like cupped hands clapping together .
ramey heard a cry from the girl and felt a slight pain somewhere in his hand .
he hadn't done it this time and he would never again hit anyone so hard .
his arms hung like empty shirt sleeves , and his mouth was slightly open .
the man brought one hand up slowly and the fingers fumbled across his face until he touched his mouth .
even yet there was no realization in his eyes .
he did not look around .
someone said .
a woman's voice said , and then he heard a sort of wail from the man's wife .
one of his hands flattened out on the pavement and supported him .
the girl kneeled by her husband with one arm at his back .
she begged .
the girl looked around quickly at several of the people .
then she saw ramey and her face was misshapen with bewilderment .
she said , her voice rising .
a shine in her eyes suddenly became tears and she turned back to her husband again .
no one seemed to know for sure what had happened , nor was there any purpose or responsibility in the muttering feet and urgent voices behind the driver , beyond finding out .
benson moved his arms , gesturing with an unfamiliar vigor and talking rapidly .
some of the ruddiness was gone from his face and he stared at ramey .
ramey watched him coming with a vision as clean as the glare on the metal sides of the trailer .
`` all right , step back '' ! !
he walked straight up to the man sitting on the ground and bent over to look at him .
`` mough -- it's my mough '' , the man said , trying to talk without moving his lips .
then he calmly and carefully slugged the remaining five shots into the venomous head -- caught in the wicker back of the chair , the eyes dead on him as the life finally went out of the brute .
he slammed the door and listened as his servants ran up , alarmed at the sound of the shots .
it was only then that he turned to look at penny .
the fear had not entirely gone from her face , but there were some other emotions now , crowding into her eyes and the lines of her mouth .
she's got guts , thought keith .
`` keith '' , said penny , `` keith , you were wonderful .
thank you , keith '' .
and for the hundredth time that week , he was startled at her beauty .
seven years they'd been married .
but her beauty always surprised him anew .
`` but knowing you , i know that you're glad to be alive , and grateful -- and sorry because i killed the snake , even though i had to .
penny lowered her eyes .
`` the snake was beautiful , wasn't it '' ? ?
`` it was a king cobra , the largest you ever saw , and it deserved to live out its life in the jungle , didn't it ? ?
''
now , she just sat there looking at him , without an expression except concern for him .
keith was snarling now .
you love this village and these stinking brown people because they're god's creatures , too .
and he loves you because you're a beautiful woman .
all of us , that is , except me .
you actually hate me -- and we both know it -- because i killed that filthy snake .
penny would not rise to his mood .
she softly let herself into the bed , and took her regular side , away from the door , where she slept better because keith was between her and the invader .
just as he knew that she had stopped loving him .
for a brief period each year , the rays of the sun are warm enough to melt some of the snows piled a mile deep at the base of the headwalls , and then the pinnacles glisten in the daytime at high noon , and billions of gallons of water begin their slow seepage under the glaciers and across the rockstrewn hanging valleys on their long , meandering journey to the sea -- running east past the sky-carving massifs of gurla mandhata and kemchenjunga , then turning south and curling down through the jungles of assam , past the khasi hills , and into bengal , past sirinjani and madaripur , until the hard water of the melting snows mingles with the soft drainage of fields and at length fans out to meld with the teeming salt depths of the bay of bengal .
but keith looked down more than up .
at first it had been just a romantic dream of his , the same as the idea of finishing oxford after the war .
wing commanders in the raf do not imply survival in the future either in their orders or in their attitudes , to their men or to themselves .
he became a fighter pilot after the stint over the hump in the big crates .
he knew how to shoot down nazis .
that was true , but only half the truth .
he enjoyed the killing .
he enjoyed killing .
nowadays , we talk as though the blitz were just a short skirmish .
not quite .
it took a long time before the british tipped the balance .
they grounded him ( over his protests -- not including his true reason for wanting to fly ) and put him in the command offices .
he was aware of her as a frightfully good-looking american wac , a second lieutenant assigned to do the paper work , ( regardless of how important she might have thought she was ) in the command offices , but that was all .
he had a war reputation , but this was the kind of man women like even without medals .
he had strength in his six-foot frame , but it was like the tensile steel in a rapier .
his hair was black , already greying at the temples in the classic beauty-idiom , the only one permitted to a man .
keith was an eagle .
no dates or hand-holding .
the command offices were in the border country , up north , where the radar systems centralized their intelligence reports , and the fighters were dispatched to harry the enemy .
this time , they had been lucky .
but there hadn't been enough time to build it for keeps .
this one was actually more of a `` near miss '' .
there was a shattering , cracking sound as the concrete started to buckle , the air filled with dust and flying debris , and everyone in the room -- men and women hit the floor and used the desks as turtlebacks , as ordered .
they stood there , just the two of them , in the rocking , shattering blast .
the bomb was a solitary one .
keith's eyes met penny's as they stood there in this strange marriage of destruction .
the chaplain married them , on the next day .
she came from ohio , from what she called a `` small farm '' of two hundred acres , as indeed it was to farmer-type farmers .
it wasn't that , however , which decided them not to go to america .
he stressed the wild beauty of the mountains , and the jungles .
he couldn't stop killing .
the terrible power of a gun , the thing that blasted the soul out of a living body , man or beast , was one he never wanted to lose .
when they got to shillong , in assam , he was happy .
this was the land of the sladang , the great water buffalo with horns forty inches across the spread .
the sambur buck , the jungle stag that is even more noble than the scottish elk .
but there are big rogues in both countries .
he and penny would go out on tame elephants , raised from babyhood in the keddah .
they came upon cheetal deer at woodland pools .
there were fantastic flowers without perfume , and gaudy birds without song .
wild boar watched their progress with little pig eyes , and grunted derision when they didn't consider such game worthy of a shot from the .
and robinson roy , who had gone down this line ten minutes before to set a new depth record for the free dive , was already back on the surface .
the german courteously indicated that robinson should mount first .
he was frowning .
`` temper , temper '' , mrs. forsythe said , laughing uneasily .
`` i loused it '' , rob said , with a savage note in his voice .
so instead i come up '' .
the german asked .
`` the equipment was fine '' , rob stated , standing up .
he stared stonily at the floor .
i've been that far half a dozen times .
`` well , i get it '' , artie said , still on the ladder .
and you also got this little spark in your bird-brain that tells you to turn around before you drown yourself .
`` no , it wasn't that '' , rob said .
`` when i came up , damnit , i thought i was going down .
`` pressure-happy '' , artie said , and climbed in .
`` i was expecting it , sure .
you don't head back down again .
not right away '' .
waddell , the newspaperman , was a fellow in his middle forties , with a graying crewcut , heavy-framed glasses , and a large jaw padded with fat .
`` our boy didn't chicken out , no sir .
nitrogen narcosis .
`` well , that's the only way to be '' , mrs. forsythe said , and gave her brassy laugh .
`` anyway '' , waddell went on .
it can kill you .
`` nobody's giving anything up '' , robinson said .
and yet like a child among adults .
i'm going down again '' .
mr. forsythe exclaimed .
he was a florid , puffy man in his early sixties , very natty in his yachting cap , striped jacket and white flannels .
old commodore forsythe , who had once lost a fifty-dollar bet on whether he could get both motors started and turn on the running lights without accidentally turning on something else first .
`` why '' , he went on , `` when rob asked me if he could make his dive on this trip , i didn't think twice about it .
hell , i gave him the first decent job he ever had , six , seven -- how many years ago was it , rob '' ? ?
he was thinking , big deal : skipper on his drunken fishing parties for seven years and no better off than when i started .
he went down the steps to the galley and sleeping quarters ; ;
waddell muttered something about taking a look around and climbed up to the flying bridge .
`` hi there , schaffner '' , he had said .
`` no thank you very much '' , schaffner had answered in his accented english .
waddell had looked the man over , trying to size him up .
his open face seemed to promise a sort of innocence , until one looked into his eyes , which had no warmth in them but only alert intelligence .
aloud he had said , making conversation :
`` yes '' , herr schaffner had said .
i like that kid '' .
`` and if the dive goes ok he has the exclusive import rights to your line for this country , is that right '' ? ?
waddell turned to face him .
he asked .
why , that's his main reason for making the dive '' .
`` what do you mean '' ? ?
`` please let me explain '' , the german said earnestly , his face still devoid of deceit .
now i wish to enter the american market , where the competition is very strong .
with all respect to a fine young man , mr. roy is not able to provide these necessaries '' .
`` did you tell him all this '' ? ?
`` perhaps not in so many words '' , the german said .
never , never did i offer him the exclusive rights .
he was most eager to make the dive ; ;
but there was no definite agreement about business arrangements '' .
there was the end of his front-page feature story , with byline .
`` one moment '' ! !
`` you intend to speak with mr. roy '' ? ?
waddell asked .
mr. roy is determined to make this dive .
i know this from my talks with him '' .
`` on the basis of the facts '' .
`` at 200 , 300 , 400 feet under the water , when he must be paying very much attention , he will be thinking about what you are telling him .
there was no doubt that herr schaffner meant every word of what he said .
`` i am an honest man '' , the german said with fervor .
i will make him distributor for all of florida -- a big market .
this will help him to get out of his little tackle shop .
but there is no use causing him to worry at this time '' .
he took a big swig of his drink .
`` i think maybe you're right , schaffner '' , he said .
`` yes '' , the german said .
`` by god '' , waddell said , `` we don't want to upset the boy at this time of all times .
he sloshed his drink around and drained it in a few large gulps .
the rewards prompt and juicy in modern big-business america .
he had asked .
`` i do not drink so much '' .
fear and relief mingled in his churning emotions .
`` blessed saint nicholas , i thank thee for getting me out of that mess and sending me up instead of down when i was bewildered .
crossed himself ; ;
folding between his hands the cross that hung from his neck , he took his appeal direct to headquarters .
make it come off all right .
and make my life different and better from this time on .
he crossed himself again and rose .
as he reached for the door there was a knock on it and when he opened he found artie , who came in and sat down on a bunk .
he waited awhile before he said , `` roy , you know your decompression table , don't you '' ? ?
`` you came straight up from 275 without a stop '' , artie said .
anyway , i wasn't down long enough to matter .
`` you know what they say about two deep dives in one day '' , artie went on , still twirling the snorkle and studying it intently .
early that day matsuo saw a marine .
as his feet slowed , he felt ashamed of the panic and resolved to make a stand .
in the leafiest part of the tree , straddling a broad horizontal limb , he could see over the meadow .
he had no doubt the marine was the lead scout of a column , and while his shot had probably bred indecision , they would soon come hunting .
yesterday ; ;
tomorrow : no surrender .
he murmured to himself , with firmness : `` no surrender '' .
his superiors had also preached this , saying it was the way for eternal honor .
his comrades were all dead .
then it would be a choice between starvation and suicide .
he sighed and leaned for a moment against the trunk .
the knife , an ammunition pouch , and a half-filled bottle of purified water hung on his belt .
as he looked up from picking at a leg ulcer , he saw a marine in the jungle across the clearing .
the marine came to the edge of the green jungle mist and stayed , as though debating whether to brave the sunlight .
`` come out , come out in the meadow '' , matsuo said under his breath .
a signal ? ?
fresh on his mind were events of the past day when his whole regiment was destroyed in the hills .
even now , like a ringing in his ears , he heard the wooooosh of flame-throwers squirting great orange billows .
the marines let him advance .
matsuo had faked death and was pitched on a stack of corpses , both the burned and the unburned , the latter decomposing rapidly under the tropical sun .
matsuo repeatedly choked down his own nausea .
apprehensively he peered to the left , to the right into the leafy , vine-crisscrossed maze .
he strained his hearing .
faint creaking of belts and slings ; ;
only the hum of insects and the distant fluttering call of a bird .
a spectacle occurred across the meadow : the lone marine took a seat on the ground ; ;
humiliation made matsuo tremble .
taking aim at the man's face , matsuo squeezed the trigger up to the point of discharge , and then he changed his mind .
the shot reverberated in diminishing whiplashes of sound .
like a mischievous boy expecting punishment , matsuo awaited reaction from the jungle .
the jungle did not retort .
before long the atmosphere reverted to its old normalcy , and insects hummed and birds occasionally called .
five or so minutes later the marine abruptly pulled up and stepped into sunlight , immediately throwing his hands over his eyes .
it ended when he tumbled ; ;
he wore no head cover of any kind and , more odd , had no visible weapon .
when he got closer to the tree , matsuo noted the wild look on his face .
hand grenades .
the marine spun , clapping a hand high on his chest , and dived forward .
they could come on him now without difficulty .
the marine was alone , for they were impatient people and by now would have vied to knock him from the tree .
the marine was sprawled some thirty yards away , one arm extended .
reflex ? ?
heat , in the sunlight , pressed in like an invisible crowd .
with a snakestrike motion he grasped the hair , and , twisting , pulled the marine over on his back .
the bullet had penetrated in the area of the right collarbone ; ;
maintaining his clutch on the hair , matsuo watched the closed eyes while rummaging in the jacket pockets .
in the other : a wristwatch with broken crystal wrapped in a dirty handkerchief .
he didn't smoke and could not light fires with a flintless lighter ; ;
then there was no saying how many times the marine had blown his nose on the handkerchief .
from its holder he took his own canteen .
the marine's eyes opened , squeezed shut , then opened squinted in the glare .
matsuo put the bottle to his own lips .
matsuo shook his head .
the marine blinked , soon dropping his hand .
`` you came well equipped to die '' .
he sniffed and recognized it .
so that had been his difficulty .
the marine tried to roll on his right side , and moaned .
`` be a good turtle '' .
the smell of sake had freshened yesterday's events in his thoughts .
the marine shut his eyes .
matsuo took the small knife from its scabbard and laid it on the ground , out of the marine's reach and away from their shadows .
every so often he turned the knife .
the sun was noon high and matsuo perspired until his body was dripping .
the man had thrown the left hand over his eyes .
he must have saturated himself in the drink , for the bullet not to shock him out of his drunken haze .
strange .
even the bone handle scorched , and he retrieved the marine's handkerchief to wrap it .
the marine yelled and flung the hand away .
a shrill yelp , kicked legs , and groping hands that circled matsuo's wrist .
burned the other cheek ; ;
the marine commenced to weep and it blighted the sense of enjoyment .
`` a small measure of payment , marine '' .
the marine , hands on cheeks , rolled by his unwounded side onto his stomach .
matsuo walked toward his tree , once glancing back .
he would soon die .
what now ? ?
someone called .
then he astonished matsuo by pushing and dragging himself until he sat .
matsuo hustled the rifle off his shoulder .
he aimed , but listened .
the man tilted back his head and went through the pantomime of drinking from a container .
`` sake '' ? ?
the marine nodded vigorously .
the marine was a winehead .
the marine slumped forward into a bow like a priest before an idol .
one swallow was all he would have ; ;
his years of campaigning had taught him the value of water discipline .
popping upright , the marine waved both hands and shouted .
down in the broil of the sun he was becoming dried out .
matsuo shook his head .
and when this was gone , he hadn't even a little bitter tablet to purify other water if he were to discover some stagnant jungle pool .
after all , he had less reason to desire it than the marine .
his head slumped .
`` marine .
`` your superiors will certainly beat you for your desertion , besides the dishonor of it .
from the convulsive quivers of the man's shoulders it was plain he had resumed the weeping .
in china it was a baby sitting on a railroad platform , smudged , blood-specked , with the village burning about him and shells exploding .
only blue throat and his gang stayed where they were .
he leered at the stranger as the distance between them closed .
he asked .
he straightened up , alert now as the buffalo hunter came closer .
`` i don't aim to have minors breathing down my neck when i'm a-drinking '' :
he didn't stop till he was within three feet of blue throat and by that time the gang leader's right hand was on the butt of his revolver .
`` and what makes you think you're going to get it , pretty boy '' ? ?
most of the time i get what i ask for '' .
`` the kid has no manners , boys .
his gun was half drawn when he asked the question , but the weapon never left its holster .
his head snapped round and he reeled back , crashing into the table where his buddies were sprawling .
a bullet gouged into the bar top an inch from tilghman's stomach as blue throat's henchmen started shooting .
the colt roared twice and two men dropped , writhing .
somewhere at the far end of the room a voice yelled , `` you all right , billy '' ? ?
and i aim to have it '' .
another took off his gun belt and flung his weapons to the floor .
`` and me '' , said another blue throat henchman .
tilghman and his partner , george rust , herded the men into a corner .
i've come for pat conyers' body '' .
blue throat , nursing an aching jaw and a collosal dose of wounded pride , rode out of town with the survivors of the fight .
blue throat won't stand for this .
the prediction was correct .
`` amen '' , said the reverend doran , grabbing his rifle propped up against a tombstone , `` and now my brethren , it would seem that our presence is required elsewhere '' .
blue throat , who had ruled the town with his six-shooter for the last six months , certainly had no intention of relinquishing his profitable dictatorship .
he rode in at the head of sixty trigger-happy and liquor-crazed desperadoes and took over a livery barn at the entrance to main street .
any posse riding down the street to demand blue throat's surrender would be wiped out with one deadly burst of fire .
several were firing into the barn when billy tilghman arrived .
`` if blue throat has his way he'll keep us all cooped up in here for days '' , he said .
he called the store owner and together they went into the stockroom .
he slipped outside , hugging the walls of buildings and dodging into doorways .
fifty yards away from the barn he dodged inside a barber's shop and came out at the back .
all he had to do was light the fuses of the dynamite sticks , run to within ten yards of an open window in the barn and hurl the sticks through .
within seconds the big barn was blasted into smoking splinters , with every outlaw either dead or injured inside .
though only slightly injured himself the big hoodlum never returned to those parts .
of all the rip-roaring two-fisted tough boys of the old west , `` uncle billy tilghman '' stands out head and shoulders .
he saw the most action , beat up more badmen with his bare fists , broke up the most gangs and sent more murderers to the gallows than any other u.s. marshal who lived before or after him .
the deeds of countless western bandits and outlaws have been glorified almost to the point of hero-worship , but because billy tilghman remained strictly on the side of the law throughout his action-packed career , his achievements and the appalling risks he took while taming the west have remained almost unsung .
he came within an ace of being riddled with bullets during his long fight with the doolin gang which terrorized oklahoma in the 1890's .
bill doolin's ambition , it appeared , was to carve out his name with bullets alongside those of jesse james and billy the kid , and bill tilghman had sworn he would stop him .
they bought rustled cattle from the outlaw , kept him supplied with guns and ammunition , harbored his men in their houses .
on a bitterly cold day in january , 1895 , accompanied only by neal brown as his deputy , tilghman left the township of guthrie and headed for rock fort and dunn's ranch .
the only evidence of occupation came from the chimney , which was belching out thick smoke .
`` wait here , neal '' , said tilghman .
leaving his rifle in the wagon , tilghman walked up to the door and hammered on it .
directly opposite the door was a roaring log fire , a welcome sight on that bitterly cold day .
`` hello , ed '' , said tilghman .
tilghman closed the door behind him and walked towards the fire .
along each side of the room were six tiered bunks , each one screened off with a curtain .
the fighting marshal had walked right into a trap and at any moment six slugs might slam into his hide .
he walked right up to the fire as though blissfully unaware of the guns covering him .
`` cold day '' , said tilghman , placing his hands behind him and casually presenting his backside to the fire .
can't seem to locate landmarks in this snow '' .
he wouldn't look tilghman in the face .
`` jed's homestead is on the south bank '' .
all that time rifle barrels were pointing unwaveringly at his head and body .
`` well '' , he announced , `` guess i'll be going now , ed , and thanks for the warmup '' .
he left the house and almost certain death without even increasing his pace and wondered by what remarkable stroke of providence he had been allowed to come out alive .
if he showed signs of collecting his rifle and going back with his deputy to the ranch he would be shot down instantly .
`` don't say or do anything '' , he said softly .
that place is crawling with bill doolin and his gang '' .
back in the house a hoodlum named red buck , sore because billy had been allowed to leave unscathed , jumped from a bunk and swore he was going after him to kill him right then .
`` billy tilghman is too good a man to shoot in the back .
but the fighting marshal's fifty-year run of immunity from violent death came to a full and final stop one night in a street at cromwell , oklahoma , where he had been sent to clean up the gambling and vice rackets .
that night he reeled out of ma murphy's dance hall and proceeded to disturb the peace by shooting off his revolver .
this woman had no distinct shape or size and no particular face , but she radiated warmth , a sweet warmth ; ;
when she would do these things , he would turn blind for an instant and become sick at his stomach .
sometimes he did this three or four times a day , for this woman was almost always with him .
but they never said anything , so he figured it was all right .
he could not keep his eyes off her when at school ; ;
when he awoke in the mornings , she was in his mind and he could hardly wait to get to school to be near her in the flesh .
tall , blonde , blue-eyes , fair , buxom without being heavy , she cut a fine figure of budding womanhood as she swished among the pupils in her fresh , starched summer dress .
but if it had been , it had been smothered until now by fear ) : you could tell it by the way she watched the older , bigger boys , like jack .
school began in august , the hottest part of the year , and for the first few days miss langford was very lenient with the children , letting them play a lot and the new ones sort of get acquainted with one another .
all , that is , except jack .
once ( this was on the third day of school ) she kneeled down to pick up some books where they'd dropped on the floor and jack looked up her dress -- at the bare expanse of incredibly white leg .
about that time miss langford straightened up and looked out the window directly at him , he thought , although probably she didn't even see him .
he didn't look back and he ran until he was out of sight of the schoolhouse and out of breath ; ;
the vision became even stronger now .
`` i've got to get her '' .
he ate litle that morning , and his mother became concerned , inasmuch as he usually ate heartily .
she said , with the solicitude of a middle-aged woman for her only child .
`` no , i'm not hungry '' , he said , pushing back the bacon and eggs .
he felt a little sick at his stomach .
`` no '' , he said .
i guess it's this hot weather '' .
and if you get sick , ask the teacher to let you come home early .
`` ok. , i won't play hard '' , he promised .
`` whaddya say , boy '' ? ?
charles , also fifteen , was tall and skinny , scraggly , with straight black hair like an indian's and sharp brown eyes .
`` you know what i done last night '' ? ?
jack knew of course that the tale to be unfolded would involve a girl and probably be dirty , because girls were charles' only apparent interest .
`` no .
`` i got margaret rider in one of them old box cars down there by the quarry '' .
his heart beat faster .
he said , lapsing into the profanity he often used when away from his parents and especially when he was with charles .
`` hell , i jist got on top of -- ''
`` hell , i jist ask her '' .
`` hell , yes .
besides i heard her old uncle that stays there has been doin' it '' .
`` it's all over branchville .
`` i might try it one of these days '' , jack said wonderingly , thinking of miss langford .
miss langford , in a fresh white dress and low-heeled white sandals , without socks , was out there with them , trying to get them inside .
`` oh , come on miss langford , play with us just onct '' , one of the little girls begged , smiling wistfully .
`` maybe at dinner time .
the children grudgingly stopped playing then and straggled into the schoolhouse .
he could think of nothing else save his mental image of her nude figure and what charles had said that morning about margaret rider .
at noontime , remembering what the teacher had said about maybe playing with the kids , jack stayed close to the schoolhouse while all the other big boys , except charles , went off out the road to play ball .
he asked charles suspiciously as they sat in the well-house shade , watching the girls congregate in front of the schoolhouse .
`` i'd druther stay here and watch the girls '' , charles grinned .
`` maybe '' , jack said idly , watching for miss langford .
when she appeared , two or three of the little girls jumped up and down , yelling , `` goody , goody '' .
they played crack the whip a few minutes without mishap .
while she was struggling to get her skirt down and get on her feet again , jack ran over , offered her his hand and said , `` gosh , i'm sorry , miss langford .
`` that's all right '' , she said , tossing her head back to get the hair out of her eyes .
with one hand she held her skirt down while she took jack's extended hand with the other .
he thought she gave him that look with the hidden something in it as he let her hand go .
`` will you play with us again , miss langford '' ? ?
`` no more today .
`` oh , shucks '' , the girl said .
`` me neither '' , others said , and soon the game broke up , the children going off in pairs , in larger groups and alone .
when he came back to the schoolhouse , his mind was made up .
that should do it , he thought , because miss langford had said she was going to be strict about school work .
the only drawback now to the plan he'd decided on was that someone else might fail to do his work , too , and the teacher would have that person stay late along with jack .
to his surprise his plan worked perfectly .
`` you will stay here thirty minutes after the others go home this afternoon and work your problems '' .
he scarcely saw them .
on the fringe of the amused throng of white onlookers stood a young woman of remarkable beauty and poise .
the youth with the snake had a natural pride and joy of life which appealed to the woman .
the haughty white girl turned to a distinguished , hawk-faced man standing at her side and murmured : `` look at your watch , col. garvier .
col. henri garvier was one of new orleans' most important and enlightened slave owners .
the slaves ran gaily to the center of congo square and gathered around a sweaty youth they called johnny no-name .
he showed his gleaming tusks of teeth and bellowed incoherently , his brass earrings jangling discordantly as he shook and trembled in ecstasy .
the dance was of haitian origin .
he was possessive in his manner and , though a slave , obviously was educated after a fashion and imitated the manners of his owners .
delphine was a pace-setter in high society .
although new orleans was not to learn of it for a spell , she also was a sadist , a nymphomaniac and unobtrusively mad -- the perpetrator of some of the worst crimes against humanity ever committed on american soil .
the slender , handsome fellow was called dandy brandon by the other slaves .
but dandy had had little experience with girls on his master's plantation in bayou st. john .
this young slave was therefore quite unprepared when delphine lalaurie signaled that she wanted him to draw near .
`` what is your name , boy ? ?
i won't bite , you know '' .
then he smiled shyly .
i belong to master alexander prieur '' .
you look quite strong and healthy to me , dandy '' .
lifting her skirts , she climbed in , never relinquishing her grip on his arm .
once inside the luxuriosly-upholstered landau , she drew the curtains and proceeded to give the startled youth the kind of physical examination usually reserved for army inductees .
this was the big man with the proprietory air and the beetling , shaggy eyebrows .
i want you to find monsieur prieur at once and give him this money for the boy's purchase .
if the old fool argues about the price , tell him i shall order my husband not to treat him as a patient any longer .
besides , he owns 300 slaves .
aristide devol , the sardonic manservant who had been brought in chains years before from his native sierra leone , smiled thinly and touched his well-brushed beaver hat .
`` another youth , madame '' ? ?
`` this one is a tender chicken , oui ? ?
it will rip and shred easily for madame '' .
you are forgetting your place '' .
delphine lalaurie took the reins in her gloved hands and drove dandy brandon -- cowering in the back seat of the carriage -- to her mansion at 677 perdido street .
dandy , curiosity overcoming his apprehensions , peered out at the doctor from the window of the vehicle .
dr. lalaurie wore a maroon smoking jacket , and his myopic eyes were blurry and glistened behind thick octagonal lenses .
`` another young man , my dear ? ?
delphine presented her cheek for a kiss , and the physician pecked it like a timid rooster .
i want the room in the attic prepared for him he is a most unusual lad , quite precocious in many ways .
`` quite so , my dear .
the physician led the horses to the stable after a cursory glance at the cringing slave .
but he liked the smell of delphine's perfume .
also , he was weary of plantation drudgery and monotony .
airless and dingy though it was , the attic represented luxury to a slave who had led a wretched life with six brothers and sisters and assorted relatives in a shanty at bayou st. john .
it was just as well that the ignorant dandy enjoyed himself to the hilt that first evening , for the room was to become his prison cell .
just six weeks after dandy brandon's arrival at the mansion , the little surgeon and his svelte young wife gave their annual open house and ball , to which only new orleans' oldest and wealthiest families were invited .
suddenly there was a commotion upstairs , a despairing boyish shriek , and the strains of the waltz faltered and died as the musicians and guests gaped at an apparition descending the marble staircase .
the lad's once superb body was a mass of scars and welts .
feebly he pointed an accusing finger at madame lalaurie and shouted : `` evil woman ! !
these were the last words he ever uttered .
dr. louis lalaurie examined the inert form of the slave on the parquet dance floor and pronounced him dead .
guests stared with horror at madame lalaurie and made speedy departures .
but at the coroner's inquest delphine told a forthright story .
it was our hope to educate him and to give him his freedom when the right time came , for he was a bright and friendly youth who seemed worthy of our interest .
how he returned in such a ghastly condition , or why , i cannot say .
she daubed at her swimming eyes with a lacy handkerchief and said with obvious emotion : `` that poor boy ! !
ruffians must have robbed and beaten him before bringing him back to our house to die .
though the slave's dying words about the woman troubled the coroner's panel , dandy's accusation was adjudged an aberration by the jury and disregarded .
moreover , runaway slaves frequently got into serious trouble in new orleans' dives .
once again life went its serene way -- soirees , fox hunts , balls and dinners .
then , on july 2 , there occurred another incident which set tongues to wagging at a furious clip .
the manservant devol and his mistress , delphine lalaurie , were pursuing a young girl -- an octoroon of cameo-like beauty -- across the front lawn of the lalaurie mansion .
she was nude to the waist and her tumbled abundance of black hair did not conceal the knife slashes on her back .
the coachman and delphine were gaining on her as she raced down perdido street .
they have pulled out all my teeth and now she will carve out my tongue with her hacksaw ! !
since then , and since the pure grain had gotten him divorced from every decent -- and even indecent -- group from greenwich village to the embarcadero , he had become a sucker-rolling freight-jumper .
there ain't nobody askin' for your ticket stub , neither '' .
ever since the hooch , and the trouble with the quartet , and midge and the child .
it had been a very long time that had no form and no end .
out and out and never to return again .
that was the day it ended .
he was pressed far back into the corner of the car on his hay sacks , the rattling and tinning of the wheels on the rails almost covering the sound of his ocarina .
the train slowed at a road crossing , and the big door slid open ; ;
the boy lifted the girl by the waist and set her on the lip of the floor .
`` now that is a very nice , a very nice '' , he murmured to himself , back in his corner .
hot , that was the word , hot ! !
a poet , yet ! !
zingggg-o ! !
he was less to see , but feathertop took him in , too , just to keep the records straight .
`` we made it , cappy '' , the chick said .
`` ah-ah '' ! !
`` none of that .
they whirled and saw him , standing there dim in the slatted light from the boarded freight wall .
he held the black plastic kazoo lightly .
`` that crap is softer over here '' .
the boy yanked her back hard , tugging her off her feet , and gathered her into the crook of his arm .
we don't know this guy '' .
this guy was strictly from outsville .
`` what is with this vow jazz '' ? ?
`` we -- we eloped '' , cappy said .
`` well , congratulations '' .
these two were going to be easy pickins .
and besides , the chick had a little something the others didn't have .
feathertop was a connoisseur .
`` come sit '' , he repeated , motioning to the piled hay bags , over the pig leavings .
he grinned at them wolfishly .
`` and you know -- you're right '' ! !
`` oh , come on , cappy '' , the girl chided .
he's a nice guy '' .
feathertop watched the smooth scissoring of her slim , trim legs as she walked to the bags , and tucked them beneath her , smoothing the skirt out in a wide circle .
it had been a long , hot while since he'd seen anything as nice as this within grabbin' distance .
slug the kid , grab his dough -- at least enough to get to philadelphia -- and then have a rockin' ball with the doll .
`` where'd you come from , mr. -- uh -- mr. smith '' ? ?
`` where from '' ? ?
`` out .
they lapsed into silence , and the freight wallowed up a hill , scooted down the other side , shaking and clanking to itself .
ernie found it immensely funny .
`` no ! !
she snapped at him .
we haven't had anything to eat all day '' .
`` whyn't ya say so , fellow travelers ! !
cappy looked wary , but he moved off the floorboards and followed the dirty ex-musician to the center of the refuse-littered boxcar .
he took out a small packet filled with bits of charcoal , a deep pot of thin metal , some sheets of newspaper , a book of matches and a wrinkled and many-times folded piece of tin foil with holes in it .
`` a charcoal pit , man '' , he said , indicating the slightly-smoking makeshift brazier .
charcoal '' ? ?
he reached once more into the carpet bag and brought up a package of wieners .
not the greatest , but they stick to your belly insides '' .
almost immediately they began to sizzle .
`` a kroger's self-serve '' , he explained .
when they had licked the last of the wieners' taste from their fingers , they settled back , and cappy offered ernie a cigarette .
`` how come you're riding the rods , kids like you '' ? ?
cappy looked down at his wide hands , and did not reply .
he didn't want us to get married .
`` why didn't he want you to get hitched '' ? ?
she looked down at her hands , too .
it was my fault '' .
`` your fault , hell ! !
if i'd been careful it never woulda '' -- he stopped abruptly .
`` what's the matter '' ? ?
cappy raged at himself .
ernie nodded .
he remembered midge , and the child .
a time before the white lightning and the bumming had turned him inside out .
oh crap ! !
these are just another couple of characters to roll .
now forget all this other .
`` yeah .
the answer came from the open door of the boxcar .
ernie stared at the man .
real big , with shoulders out to here , and hair all over him like a grizzly .
the big man asked again , taking a step into the boxcar .
this character could break him in half .
he guzzled down three-quarters of the strong home-blend and proffered the remainder .
he took the bottle with undue belligerence , and making sucking noises with his thick lips , drained it completely .
he belched again , and opening his eyes , threw the bottle out the open door .
`` we're going to philadelphia '' , kitty said , pulling her skirt down around her legs all the more .
he had suspected this guy was trouble , and now he was sure of it .
he advanced on them , and abruptly there was a shocked electricity in the car .
her scream split up the silence of the car , accompanied by the rattling of the freight , and then cappy came off the floor , his legs driving him hard .
and carried him backward in a footballer's tackle .
the kid showed for an instant , and his arm was cocked back .
then they were tumbling again , and the big man reached into the same pocket he had gone for earlier , and came up with a vicious switchblade .
the blade came out with a snick ! !
kitty screamed insanely and her face was white .
help him ! !
they neither liked nor disliked the old man .
the old man was unimportant .
or the smell of thick tomato paste -- the ripe smell that was both sweet and sour -- rising up from aluminum trays wrapped in fly-dotted cheesecloth .
or the bay of female dogs in heat .
filippo rossi , that's what he was called in the old country ; ;
but this was not unusual , because youth in these quarters was always pushed at a distance from its elders .
it went to church on sunday and one saturday a month went to confession .
the only thing unusual about the old man had long since happened .
once the old man had had a wife .
with a tiny fur-piece wrapped around her shoulders , she wiggled her satin-covered buttocks down the street before him and didn't stop .
the way she strutted down the street , the old man would have been blind not to have noticed both .
`` but she shouldn't have come here in the first place '' , the women had said .
not that one .
`` eh , torino ! !
just because she had a part on the stage in the old country , she thought she could carry her head higher than ours '' .
`` it's not for making pretty speeches about dante those actresses get paid so good '' .
calloused fingers , caressed only by the smoothness of polished rosaries , had swayed excitedly beneath puckered chins where tiny black hairs sprouted , never to be tweezed away .
`` puttana '' ! !
it was enough for people to know that at one time he had looked down the street at the fleshy suppleness of a woman he had consumed -- watching her become thinner and thinner in the distance , as thin as the seams on her stockings , and still thinner .
it had not questioned why .
but he might have been shooing away the fleas that hopped from his yellow dog onto him .
) and his eyes -- those miniature sundials of variegated yellow -- had not altered their expression or direction .
perhaps he had known then where that hundred dollar bill had come from and where it was taking his wife .
there seemed to be a contemptuous purpose in the way he sat there with his eyes glued to drexel street and his back in opposition to the church behind him .
it could have been bari or chieti for the way it smelled .
or that the tiny creek spun its silent course toward the schuylkill ? ?
to him they were one and the same .
sameness lined the streets with two-story houses the color of ash .
it swayed with the wicker swings and screeched with the rusted hinges of screen doors .
and the coffee shop on drexel street , where the men spent their evenings and sundays playing cards , had a rose hedge beneath its window .
only one house on the street had no lawn before it .
that was bartoli's shop .
did the old man remember them there ? ?
only paved alleyways tunneled through the walls of those fortresses into the mysterious core of intimacy behind the houses where backyards owned no fences , where one man's property blended with the next to form courtyards in which no one knew privacy .
and the forked tongue of gossip licked its sinister way from back porch to back porch .
they kept him alive , waiting .
it was as though he had made a pact with the devil himself , but it was not yet time to pay the price .
he was determined to hold out .
at fifteen he didn't care that he had no mother , that he couldn't remember her face or her touch ; ;
he was named pompeii as a tribute to his heritage , and he couldn't have cared less about that either .
when he would be a man , he would be a rich man .
he would not ride the eight-thirty local to the city each morning .
nor would he work at all .
he would sit inside the coffee shop and pound a gloved fist upon the table and a girl would hear him and come running , bowing with her running , calling out in her bowing , `` at your service '' .
he could do that when he would be a man .
he called to his sister on the porch above the steps .
`` laura , what would you say if i smoked a pipe '' ? ?
she leaned unconcerned against the broken porch fence , brushing and drying her wet , gilded hair in the sun .
her tanned foot , whose arch swept high and white , pointed artfully toward tapering toes -- toes like fingers , whose tips glowed white .
her face showed no sign of having heard pompeii .
the eyes , blue and always somewhat downcast , possessed a sullen quality .
he was never sure they fully took him in .
but the only answer that reached him was the screeching of the porch rail from her leg moving against it .
well , what did that matter when the sun was shining and there were dreams to dream about ? ?
not even laura .
above the tongue , an aged yellow eye , sallow and time-cast , encrusted within a sphere of marbleized pink skin , stared unfalteringly at him .
but the goat would not .
soothing it with his hand , knowing the whiskered jowls and the swollen smoothness of teats that wrinkled expectantly to his touch .
his head undulated gradually , covering space , to come straining beneath the taut belly within the warmth of those teats .
the boy's fingers and mouth operated with the skilled unity of a bagpipe player , pressing and pulling , delighting in what he did .
its form was a heavy figure in a fluttering soutane .
the old man near the corner let the shadow pass over him , sensing something portentous in it .
there would be time enough , perhaps the old man reassured himself , to pay the devil his due .
in the meantime , six sandals , stained an ocher , the same color as pompeii's shaved hair , edged up close to him .
he knew at a glance that the biggest sandals belonged to niobe , the neatest ones to concetta , and the laced ones to romeo , concetta's idiot brother .
he expected concetta's thin hand to reach down to grasp the boy , and her shrill , impetuous voice to sound against the rotundity of his disfigured flesh that was never sure of hearing anything .
the room filled with smoke , and maggie's head throbbed with excitement and fatigue , but stuart had such a happy , earnest look of proud possession on his face that maggie couldn't bear to do anything to quench it .
in two months she became a fat highly social baby , with a fuzz of flaxen hair all over her head .
she developed a peaches and cream complexion and a sunny disposition , and she asked for nothing more of life than that she be kept dry and comfortable and fed huge amounts of food at stated intervals and be carried to where she could watch activity going on around her .
maggie couldn't seem to get her strength back or catch up with herself with all she had to do : there was the big basket of clothes to be coaxed through the rackety old washer and lugged out and lugged back ; ;
worry had a great deal to do with it ; ;
mr. clifton would have preferred death and bankruptcy to having his son stay with his wife's people without contributing to his and his family's upkeep , and besides that there were the things that had to be bought for the baby , milk and orange juice and vitamins and soap , just plain soap .
in desperation maggie consulted eugenia one afternoon : `` do you think you could find me something i could do here at home to make some money , so i could still watch the baby and do the rest of the things '' ? ?
she had been watching maggie go from the washing machine to the baby to the stove and back again .
`` it would make me feel a lot better , but the woman's exchange isn't taking baked goods any more and i can't leave the baby with grandma because she isn't strong enough and the baby's too young to be put in a nursery '' .
`` for one thing you can stop keeping that child in starched dresses and changed from the skin out nineteen times a day '' .
maggie said .
`` she'll be just as beautiful in something that doesn't have to be ironed '' , eugenia said .
`` evadna mae evans got all her baby clothes from best's liliputian bazaar in new york , and i'm sick and tired of hearing about evadna mae evans '' .
`` i'm just thinking of a way for you to be sensible '' .
i do seem to snap at everybody these days , but i would like to think of a way to make a little extra money '' .
when she came back eugenia was sitting at the kitchen table with a pencil and envelope jotting down words and figures .
`` we could put up cribs on the second floor sleeping porch and turn the front bedroom into a playroom where it's nice and sunny , but of course it would entail quite a bit of running up and down stairs and chris said you were to be careful about that '' .
`` you might set up a dress shop in the living room '' .
`` what about a tea room , then ? ?
`` it's too elaborate .
eugenia sighed .
`` oh , i'm sure i could do that '' , maggie said .
`` don't worry , i can get plenty more '' , eugenia said , wondering where in the world she could .
`` and then whenever i have a minute i can be working at it , and keep an eye on the baby and the stove at the same time .
`` what are you going to do with your feet so you don't waste anything '' ? ?
she said , `` oh eugenia , i wish ''
`` i wish i had three wishes '' , maggie said .
it grew bitterly cold toward the end of november , contributing to the miseries of countless numbers of people .
the cold settled like a tangible pall over the mile high city , locking it in an icy grip that harshened its outlines and altered its physical appearance ; ;
the jobless huddled in the streets outside of employment offices , outside newspaper buildings , in parks , in relief lines , outside government agencies .
there never had been a need felt for such facilities .
the east was popularly supposed to have got the country into war and into depression , dragging the west along ; ;
the government offices were being opened but they weren't being opened fast enough and meanwhile the cold penetrated everything .
all this government spending would have to be paid for somehow , but on the other hand desperate circumstances called for desperate remedies and something had to be done .
it was the theme song of millions of american people , their personal problems no less urgent than those of the government .
the abernathys said it to each other a dozen times a day .
about keeping warm , about keeping well , about meeting the minor emergencies that came up once , twice , fifty times a day .
the abernathy furnace consumed fuel like a giant ravenous maw that had to be appeased by hurling tons of coal into its evil red depths , and no matter how much coal they put in the house remained cold .
presently they had to give up running the furnace at full capacity and depend on the old coal range in the kitchen , which had never been removed when the new gas range was installed , and the fireplaces and an electric heater in grandma's room .
the pipes burst and they all laughed and stood in ice water to their ankles while they swabbed the bathrooms .
they moved maggie's bed and the baby's basket there , and the rest of them undressed by the stove and ran groaning and shivering to the upper polar regions and plunged into icy beds .
`` you said a mouthful '' , eugenia said grimly .
she said to maggie that it was one thing to meet an emergency and another to wallow in it , and it was beginning to look at if this one was going to last forever .
`` plenty of people haven't our brains and talent '' .
`` you're working up to something , and if you don't watch out you'll ruin your whole life one of these days just to prove that the abernathy family is superior to everything , even a depression '' .
they begged grandma to let them put a bed in the kitchen for her , but grandma said she was getting too old to sleep in strange beds and be seen with her teeth out , and that she hoped to die in privacy like a christian and if the lord willed it to be of pneumonia than it would have to be that way .
hope wouldn't hear of it , and she took the heater back to grandma's room , and grandma took it back to hope's room , and the two of them dragged it back and forth until grandma tipped it over and almost set her bedspread on fire .
eugenia suspected her of deliberately overturning the heater because she was getting tired of dragging it back and forth and still wanted her own way , but hope said if grandma wouldn't have the heater nobody would have it , so grandma had to give in .
unusual in a case like this , but '' --
didn't you read it ? ?
''
this ought to simplify tolley's life '' .
tolley had gone to live in california .
`` it was plain as the nose on your face that they're laughing about it , mamma .
`` we will both go back , laban '' ! !
`` let me stay and take the pictures you wanted , mamma .
`` pictures '' ? ?
`` what pictures '' ? ?
you told me to bring my camera .
`` indeed you are ! !
tolley had no idea of marrying that sneaky little jenny ! !
wait for me , laban , i'll be dressed in half a second '' ! !
`` hurry , frank ! !
tolley's going is my fault .
you know it and i'll tell everybody exactly how it happened '' .
he kissed her .
`` i'll decide that when i get there .
but i'll be fair now ! !
yes , oh yes .
returning to the log-house he found some favorite lines from jonathan swift on his lips :
i marry this man and woman together .
put this man and woman asunder '' .
he questioned god's taking time to telegraph the message , but he felt better about kizzie , and he took the sealed envelope from its pigeonhole , wondering why he had preserved it .
in any case he would be thrusting a burden on his remaining sons , making them parties to a deception peculiarly his own .
`` you've told god , frank '' , he said .
reaching for an old clay pot , relic of pioneer days , he tore the envelope in pieces , dropping them into it , touching the little pyre to flame , watching it curl , the red sealing wax melting and bubbling in the feathery ash .
`` ' and let me go , for the night gathers me , and in the night shall no man gather fruit ' '' .
but there were great satisfactions , even for a small man .
there lay grand fair's quinzaine , his own young parents' graves , but new life and promise for his sons , grandsons .
`` to absent loved ones '' .
mr. robards -- jenny was the only person she knew of in the mt. pleasant neighborhood who called him that -- was kind but too easygoing .
he could put a stop to it , she told him again and again .
mr. robards laughed , said he'd feel a damn fool , plain-out couldn't do that even to please her .
and if i ever hear you say ' mist laban ' again i'll scream .
i heard you '' ! !
how strange it was that he could give her this handsome house and carte blanche as to its beautiful furnishings , and fail her in -- spiritual ways .
her horse , rather .
he called her `` the mare '' much as mrs. whipsnade spoke of `` the queen , god bless her '' .
for the first few months of their marriage she had tried to be nice about gunny , going out with him to watch this pearl without price stamp imperiously around in her stall .
gunny invariably tried to bite her .
`` stand back , miss jen , she's oneasy of your scarf '' .
never concern for his wife's nerves , or the danger that the curled lip and big teeth might mark their own dear baby due in january .
listening for hours to his laments that the war and `` mist fair's '' poverty afterwards had robbed the mare of many a racing triumph , and to his predictions of greatness for the procession of foals to come , jenny could look forward to years of conflict with an animal who disliked her intensely and showed it .
human birth was no novelty to mr. robards .
jenny's aversion to having dr. dunne , a former admirer , seemed silly to him , but he would humor her , get anybody she wanted , the best never being too good for her .
he would be in the barn , or riding for the veterinarian ! !
yet when the dear baby came , he had tillie over here in a jiffy , and was as attentive and sweet and worried and happy when it was all over as any husband could have been .
there was something not nice about triplets , though their father seemed pleased , showing no disappointment that they hadn't been the son he wanted , saying , `` you don't see triplets trippin' down the pike ever' day , miss jen , hon .
edmonia for her mother , she said firmly , jennifer , for herself , and --
`` she was mighty good to you past times , an' this'll fetch her '' .
just wait till she saw the mare's foal .
strong too , up on his legs when he was an hour old .
`` why don't you name him jesus christ ! !
roy was deeply distressed .
of course she wasn't herself right now , but as her strength came back her spirits didn't seem to rise with it .
those elegant `` at home '' cards she sent out , now she could wear her pretty clothes again , and had the house all trimmed up , hadn't brought many callers in two whole months .
so had miss shawnee rakestraw , full of criticisms about the changes here , giving thanks that her dear old father had gone to his heavenly rest last year , saying how much she enjoyed her boarding house in town in inclement weather , was looking forward to quinzaine spa this summer .
miss kizzie had been right snippy ever since they were married , though you'd have thought a namesake would have brought her round .
but when miss jen went over right away to return the call , miss kiz couldn't have been very cordial , for she'd come back before she hardly had time to get there .
though he was glad she got on well with his young folks , she ought to be welcome at the finest house in the land , too .
she hoped they were well .
if he ever did such a thing again she'd die of shame .
`` a swell party , send an invite to ever'body but them -- those folks you met at the galt house , the ones i've got to know in this new jockey club affair , the whole dang neighborhood .
i'll see word gets round '' .
''
he was downright worried about her , but there was one more thing he could try .
roy smiled -- he did have a nice smile -- took off his hat most politely , told her to hop in , and he'd give her a lift to quinzaine .
`` see for yourself , miss zion .
he swung in through his own wide gateway .
she'll relish the sight of a friendly face .
`` why of course not '' , zion said uncomfortably .
the absolution of doaty's last will and testament was proof enough of that ; ;
she found herself wishing an old wish , that she had told doaty she was running away , that she had left something more behind her than the loving , sorry note and her best garnet pin .
henrietta thought , it's extraordinary how much she always knew about both of us .
adelia was the good one , or , if not always good , less frequently tempted .
in winter , in the city , there had been the maneret school , which taught excellently with a kind of austere passion for knowledge ; ;
there had been the dancing class -- miss craddock , thin and tireless , with her supervising wand and her everlasting one-two-three , one-two-three .
mama had died before the corruption of the family circle , the interruption of charles .
mama was vulnerable ; ;
but i would have gone anyway , thought henrietta .
only at this moment -- perhaps because it was before dawn and she was lying in doaty's bed -- she found herself examining how others might regard her .
she turned on her side , finding the idea oppressive .
impossible to imagine adelia feeling so about anyone .
no temptation , no virtue ? ?
the birds were really awake now in a colloquy of music , and light was beginning to creep across the room , touching sill and door , table and chair and all of doaty's flowers in their artificial blossom and leaf .
everything must wait upon this mission , this sentimental duty of a pilgrim whose nature avoided graveyards .
it had always seemed to rain there , and even the grass was gray .
the garden below was lacy with dew and enchanting in its small wildness .
on a thrusting spray thick with thorns and dewdrops and swelling pink buds , like a summer valentine , a bird balanced and sang , nondescriptly brown and alive with its own music , a little engine of song .
feeling suddenly neat and subdued , she dressed quite soberly and went downstairs .
feeling protective toward this sleeping being , henrietta found a yesterday bun and milk in a white jug , a breakfast which was somewhat the equivalent of going barefoot .
the poodle came gleefully to henrietta and begged for the flowers , supplicating the air with prayerful forepaws .
`` rummaging in the dew '' , said rosa coldly .
she sounded so exactly like doaty that henrietta obeyed her under the clear impression that she could either comply or stay home .
to a blackwell , there was only one church .
for the first time in thirty years , henrietta walked down the narrow street with its shuttered shops just stirring and its inhabitants eying her with the frankest curiosity .
now , some of the acknowledgments were cautious , but all were interested .
on an impulse , she turned back and said good morning .
he then offered his own estimate of the weather , which was unenthusiastic .
`` it's my dryin' out time '' .
`` i'm taking them to the cemetery '' , said henrietta , out of a vague feeling of hospitality .
see half of 'em in their graves before i choose my own coffin .
he regarded her with rising hope .
`` it's nice of you '' , henrietta said doubtfully .
he straightened himself , soldierly against the wall , and pulled his sprawled feet together so they stood side by side in their old boots .
`` every month , f'r three days '' , he said happily , `` i take no water into my system , no water whatsoever .
henrietta murmured that she could quite see how it would , and he nodded approval of her womanly good sense .
my dad did it , and he lived to a great age '' .
`` don't remember , do you '' ? ?
next to the blackwells , titus had owned the island most , and she and adelia had often stood in front of him , silenced by his terrible years -- a scanty man with a thin beard and very deep-set blue eyes like a mariner , more aged than possible .
it must be that son who sat before her now , shriveled to half his size and half his senses .
`` not so well's i remember you '' , he said .
ran away on a black night with a lawful wedded man .
`` you do seem to '' , said henrietta , impressed .
`` left mine many a time , only she never knew it .
any harm in that '' ? ?
he gave a short hard laugh and looked at her knowingly .
only , this old man's connivance was even less to her taste than selma cotter's open censure .
she had come to make her peace with the past , and of that past this ancient of the earth was only a kind of shadow .
she smiled vaguely at henrietta and spoke to the old man .
`` y'r dam' porridge is no breakfast '' , he said .
he beat the air with his stick , and it fell from his claws and clattered on the stones .
`` he's got this idea about drying out ''
`` if it ain't an idea '' , she said , `` how comes it you can drink beer but not water '' ? ?
his grand-daughter sighed .
the children are eating , and miss blackwell's on her way somewheres '' .
who ain't '' ? ?
i've got a day's work to do .
henrietta nodded .
the woman ( she must have been a tiny baby when hetty and delia had stood arm in arm , watching great age grow small ) answered the nod with her own .
come on now '' .
he mumbled at her but let himself be led off inside the house , shuffling mightily to make it clear how weak and aged he was and how he was buffeted about by those who still had their wicked strength .
henrietta looked down at her bouquet , still lively with its color and scent , and set her feet on their journey's way again , leaving the village street and crossing the first field , folly dancing ahead of her .
they were covered with tiny white blossoms , their scant roots clawing at the stony ground , and wild birds darted in and about and through them so they were nearly alive with the rustle and cry .
she felt mindless , walking , and almost easy until the church spire told her she was near the cemetery , and she caught herself wondering what she would say to doaty .
she sat down on the nearest , fallen with age and gray with sea-damp , her fingers tracing the indecipherable carved letters padded with green moss .
a small , rock-carved angel watched her from a nearby tomb , the only angel in the cemetery .
the momoyama family had come from miyagi prefecture , in the northeast of the main japanese island of honshu , where there are still traces of the mysterious ainu strain .
apparently they were of caucasian blood .
all their men were bearded , and many of their women were beautiful .
most of them have been assimilated , but sometimes a man in miyagi or akita prefectures is much more hairy than the average japanese , and occasionally a girl will be strikingly lovely , her coloring warmed and improved by a little of the tawny honey-in-the-sun tint of the invaders from the south .
she was taller than most japanese girls , and had the exquisitely willowy form of the japanese girl who is lucky enough to be tall .
her mouth , soft and full , was something for any man to dream about .
she had been in japan just one week .
she was already considering putting in rebellious requests for duty at san diego , bremerton , the great lakes , pensacola -- any place the navy had a hospital -- with a threat to resign her commission if the request were not granted .
there was nothing wrong with her job .
there were no depressingly serious cases : the ward doctor sometimes teamed up with the chaplain to serve as a marriage counselor -- sometimes the navy sent people back to the states to preserve a marriage -- but mental health as a rule was very high .
tommy was interested in psychiatry , because there was much an understanding nurse could do to help the patients .
such as now , when she sat at a table in the coffee shop at the officers' club , having coffee and a hamburger to sustain her until dinnertime .
this was one of the navy's crossroads -- you find them all around the world .
sooner or later , all the gray navy ships came in here ; ;
and she wanted desperately to see someone she had known back there .
he came through from the fleet bar , which was stag , with the ice cubes tinkling in a glass he carried .
he was perhaps a trifle tipsy , having been long at sea where drinking is not permitted , and consequently out of practice ; ;
probably off one of the carriers -- an aviator .
japan did something to a man -- and it wasn't just japan , either , because the same thing applied anywhere overseas .
it intimated that the folks at home would never know about it , and , therefore , why not ? ?
`` harro , girl-san '' ! !
`` you catchee boy-furiendo ? ?
`` i beg your pardon '' ! !
`` i don't believe i know you , and i can't understand your quaint brand of english -- it was meant to be english , wasn't it '' ? ?
at least , he had the decency to blush , she thought .
you see , i thought -- i mean i really had no idea '' --
tommy interrupted furiously .
then she jerked her thumb toward the door in a very american gesture , and dropped into navy slang .
`` uh -- sorry '' ! !
the trouble was that there was no lasting satisfaction in this for tommy .
it hadn't been this way in college , or in nurses' training ; ;
everybody had accepted her for what she was -- a very charming girl .
there are spanish girls who look like tommy momoyama , brunettes with a moorish hint of the orient in their faces ; ;
now , having been sent halfway around the world on a job she had not asked for , tommy was being humiliated at every turn .
four little japanese waitresses were murdering the english language at the counter -- yuki kobayashi happened to be one of them .
for a steak sandwich , or `` kohi futotsu '' ! !
two other japanese girls were sitting at the tables , both quite pretty and well groomed .
the other was with her american husband and their exceptionally appealing children .
she told herself rebelliously , and with pride , i am an american ! !
but she was learning that so long as she was in this country , and wore civilian dress in the club , there would always be transient young men who would approach her with broken english .
tommy wouldn't know ; ;
one thing was becoming increasingly sure .
there was more to service in the navy nurse corps than the hours in the ward .
now there was raucous male singing from the fleet bar .
she finished her hamburger and drank her coffee and paid her check ; ;
eating while angry had given her a slight indigestion .
then , after a while , she went to her mirror .
she certainly looked japanese , and perhaps she could not really blame the young men .
there was a letter to write to her mother , and she tried to make its tone cheerful .
and tomorrow she would take time to shop for the kimono her mother wanted to present to the young wife of a faculty member as a hostess gown .
actually , this is only another way of saying that blood is thicker than water .
but the beer hall riot in subic had been unusual , too , and walt perry was convinced that doc had started it through some expert tactics in rabble rousing .
in his opinion , doc had not grown up .
there had never been a good reason for doc doolittle to grow up .
the war found him much too early , and its perils -- and especially its awful boredom -- were best forgotten in horseplay and elaborate practical jokes , and even now doc had never found any stabilizing , sobering influence .
he wisecracked about the captain's indoctrination of new men , took great delight in slaughtering cockroaches with ethyl chloride , and gave no thought for tomorrow .
the job security enjoyed by doc doolittle , and nearly all members of the armed forces , is a wonderful thing .
he may not rise to the heights , but he can get by , and eventually be retired .
this deprived him of liberty in hong kong , but he told boats mccafferty that hong kong was a book he had read before , and the navy would always bring him there again , some day .
this gave doc the whole range of the naval establishment , and suited him quite well .
a telephone line had been hooked up to connect the ship with the base exchange .
`` well , doc , you old sonofabitch '' ! !
`` come over and have a drink .
grab a taxi '' .
`` i've got to run an errand on the way .
he threw a smart salute at the gangway , went up the dock , and turned down the wide street in front of the petty officers' club .
he considered some interesting excursion but he was on the road every day from dawn to dusk .
perhaps golf , with a fashionable companion -- but he'd lost his clubs , hadn't played in years .
perhaps a packing trip into the sierras , let his beard grow -- but that was too stark .
the telephone rang .
wow .
`` hi , buzz '' , owen said .
`` tough '' , buzz said , `` listen , we're having a stag dinner over at the pagan room on friday .
he laughed and laughed .
`` thanks '' , owen said , `` but friday is a long way off and anything can happen '' .
when owen was finally rid of him , there was a timid rap at the door .
`` yes '' ? ?
ahah , he thought , a lush divorcee at last .
he was disappointed to find a nervous , scrawny woman with a big hat standing at the door .
`` how do you do '' ? ?
`` our church is sponsoring a group of very courageous women up in alaska .
they're up there in that freezing climate and all of us have to try and help them '' .
`` you see '' , she said , looking past him into the room , where the highball glasses sparkled dully in the bright light , `` you and i can't understand the many hardships they have to undergo '' .
she apparently wasn't satisfied with his reaction .
there was a slight nervous twitch in the region of her left eye .
`` have you ever tried to reason with an eskimo '' ? ?
`` they are a very difficult group of people '' .
she smiled in a sickly-tolerant fashion .
people don't know how much they give away about themselves by remarks like that .
forebearing , owen kept his peace .
that she was out for a touch was certain , but when did she get to the pitch ? ?
`` how did you get by the desk '' ? ?
`` i'm sure the hotel doesn't know you're wandering around the corridors , knocking on strangers' doors and talking down eskimos '' .
every day i visit a different hotel .
i do this work all on my own , because i understand the difficulties and i want to help these lay-sisters .
they travel in pairs as much as a hundred-and-fifty miles a day '' .
i have the whole pacific northwest '' .
mrs. gertrude parker drew back .
`` you're in the secular world '' .
i don't think you'll find many active christian salesmen .
those bibles and prayer books make a lot of money for publishing houses , but they don't get top personnel .
`` god , i take it , plays no part in this '' , she said waspishly .
it sounded silly ; ;
more people were passing ; ;
`` and whiskey '' , she said , smiling and blinking at the highball glasses .
it's such a big seller '' .
i have an appointment '' .
`` probably down at the bar .
they must be freezing up there now .
`` leave a card or something .
`` i have no card '' , she said bitterly .
i only hope my talking to you has helped you a little , anyway , because you need spiritual bucking-up '' .
she stood indecisively for a moment , then walked down the hall ; ;
it took him about fifteen minutes to calm himself ; ;
he showered , shaved , dressed and went down to the dining room for breakfast .
there was a check from his company , and the usual enthusiastic bulletins on new lines they always issued .
he ate breakfast in a sullen mood , but afterwards , when he walked out onto virginia street , he felt braced .
the glisten of the truckee river made a wide spangle .
with any luck at all he could easily find a flowerpot .
the tables were all spinning , the dice rattling , the bar crowded .
the way was opening up ; ;
the golden calf was dimly lit with shaded neon .
they all had the hard look of gamblers who had stopped dreaming , who automatically turned the cards , hardly caring what showed up .
the women had a bright shining expectancy as they leaned out from the wall and gazed splendidly into the distance , while the men were stern but hopeful .
`` i wonder if they did eat each other at the end '' , owen mused .
she sighed a dirty word and left .
she sat down and played two slots at once , looking grim , as if bested by mechanical devices , and owen felt sorry for the lay-sisters depending on her support .
he was a little more authentic than usual because he smelled slightly of the stables .
`` you can't build on your hit-and-miss five-seventeen '' .
owen asked .
`` i keep all these plays in this little black book , and i watch over a twelve-hour period to find out what numbers are repeating .
i'm always trying to find a breaking table in blackjack .
`` nice to know you .
`` well , of course i do .
he's my own horse , and what i collect from him i use on blackjack .
i figure if i can get any kind of publicity campaign going , i'll land him on tv -- you know , one of those favorite horses for some western hero .
he's a pinto and he photographs wonderfully '' .
this proved conclusively that the wrangler was a jinx , so he walked on down to hurrays , an even more glorified gambling den than the golden calf .
his adventurous spirit had waned ; ;
he ogled a long redhead with green eyes , but she was a shill with her money in front of her .
it just seemed such a dry run .
everyone was flipping silver dollars .
he read a special announcement whereby hurrays would feature a special floorshow at three a.m. starring adele ( the body ) brenner and fourteen glamorous schoolgirls .
he passed two brides , both wearing orchids , and they made him feel a little sad .
buzz had on a hawaiian shirt and was carrying some sun-tan oil and dark glasses .
`` we're all going over to lake tahoe and try our luck at cal-neva '' , buzz explained , still instigating .
he started out as a stickman , then became a pit boss until the club found him crossroading .
`` i'm allergic to tahoe '' , owen explained .
`` well , okay '' , buzz said .
owen went over to the crap table and the dice were hot , but he couldn't pyramid with any consecutive success .
a short platinum blonde in a bursting sun-suit addressed him .
`` i haven't had any luck since i was a baby '' .
i'll make them dance the tango .
`` if you go broke '' , she said , smiling up at him , `` i'll leave you '' .
`` it sort of brings a lump to my throat '' .
`` named after the ballet .
spencer said nothing .
spencer shook his head .
spencer was quiet for a moment longer , then he said , `` there is nothing i want to say , captain '' .
alexander walked away .
philip spencer had cold-bloodedly planned the murder of his captain , yet it seemed in order to chide him for a lapse of proper address .
those named in the greek paper were manufacturing reasons to steal aft under pretence of some call of duty , so as to be near spencer , watching an opportunity to communicate with him .
the two met in the captain's cabin .
`` more arrests , i fear '' .
`` cromwell , of course .
he saw the dangers , not the glories of being identified as a mutineer .
there was a tap at the door and oliver entered with the word that heiser wished to see the captain .
heiser , breathless and wild-eyed , brought the chilling news that the handspikes , heavers and holystones had been mysteriously removed from their customary places .
an african knife and battle-ax are at this moment being sharpened by mckinley and green .
`` where did you gather all this information , heiser ? ?
he was interrupted by a crash from the deck and sprang toward the ladder , with gansevoort and heiser behind him .
the aimless milling about of what had been a well-trained , well-organized crew struck alexander with horror .
adrien deslonde hastened to alexander's side .
i saw him myself and it was done after consultation with cromwell .
and it was clear that adrien was not mistaken , for both small and cromwell took no step toward aiding in the sending up of the new topgallant mast till philip spencer had given the signal to obey .
alexander guessed that they had planned confusion and turmoil , thinking it the ideal climate in which to begin battle and bloodshed .
when the mast was raised , alexander gave the order for small and cromwell to be placed under arrest , and now three figures in irons sprawled upon the open deck and terror stalked the somers .
one of the missing handspikes came out of its hiding place after midshipman tillotson had been insolently disobeyed by seaman wilson .
wilson , shackled and snarling , was thrown with the other prisoners and was soon joined by green , mckee and mckinley .
in the tiny cabin , alexander met with gansevoort , heiser and wales to speak and to listen .
gansevoort said , `` it requires an omniscient eye to select those if any on whom we can now rely .
from actions aboard , it is easy to guess that spencer's boast of twenty staunch followers was a modest estimate '' .
`` that would be worse than useless '' , alexander broke in .
besides , suppose we hold a court of inquiry , then what ? ?
mr. heiser , does this sound like a truly workable plan to you ? ?
wales said , `` of course they would .
all that is needed is for one man to feel self-confident enough to take the lead .
we are going to be rushed and murdered '' .
we are not going to be rushed and murdered '' , alexander said .
`` of course , i agree with the captain '' , gansevoort said thoughtfully , `` but the conspiracy is ferocious and desperate .
anything is possible when anarchy has the upper hand '' .
implements of wood and iron are available for close and hasty combat no matter where a man stands .
`` we ourselves must stand sentinel '' .
`` under arms day and night , watch and watch about .
a great deal of labor we have as well , for we are too uncertain of where trust may be placed '' .
with all his heart he had loved the navy and now he must act in accordance with the navy's implacable laws .
where had he failed ? ?
he who had tried so hard , who had yearned so passionately to be a great officer .
it was given or it was not given .
one did one's best and if fortune frowned , an eighteen-year-old boy with murder in his heart sailed aboard one's ship .
god knew his tears were his to shed if he so desired , for it had not been with an egotist's rage for fame that he had held precious his naval career .
it was for love that he had served the navy .
now the hope was gone .
dear god , at what a price .
stern-faced , he inspected the prisoners , satisfying himself that they were clean , well fed and comfortable within reason .
only cromwell , the giant boatswain , was mild-mannered and respectful .
captain , i am innocent of any plot against you or the ship '' .
`` yes , sir .
i know nothing of any plot , if there is such a thing '' .
`` i cannot speak for others , sir , but i am innocent '' .
`` surely , captain , you did not find my name on any suspicious paper or anything '' .
you were careful about that '' .
he said , `` cromwell is telling you the truth .
alexander shifted his gaze to spencer .
alexander knew spencer too well to think him naive or thick-skulled .
here was another human who understood the stupidity of quarreling with the inevitable .
he expected nothing for himself but that which naturally follows those marked for misfortune .
this tragic lad had forged his own shackles .
and because fortune had favored neither the prisoner nor the red-haired captain , they would be each other's undoing .
he was your constant companion '' .
`` i tell you he is innocent '' .
`` yes .
`` nothing to lose , either , spencer '' .
his eyes went back to contemplation of the sea .
`` before god , captain , i am innocent '' .
the boatswain was as guilty as any .
`` i thought '' , midshipman rogers had told alexander , `` that spencer was teaching him geometry '' .
this was a training ship and the training would continue , but there was an element of frightful absurdity here which alexander recognized .
rachel steered me along toward a school for young boys beginning to study the torah .
the air smelled warmish and foul .
he wore a long double-breasted coat of a heavy material , dark trousers , and black boots with buckles .
with his head erect , he approached , not glancing at us , and passed by with his clear eyes raised and fixed straight ahead .
i was suddenly conscious of my bare arms .
i turned and watched him stride down the center of the road .
rachel had seen me watching the young man .
`` when your mother was here he must have been a young boy .
i swallowed hard and looked down at my feet plodding along beside rachel .
the dirty , discolored buildings looked boarded up , and their few windows stood high above our heads .
we entered one where the front door stood ajar and climbed a flight of steep steps to the main floor .
rachel talked to him .
i thought he would ask us to leave because rachel and i were bare-armed , but he looked down into his beard and preceded us down the corridor .
he stopped in front of a door , placed a finger on his lips , and , still peering down into his beard , pushed open the door to a classroom .
he left us .
his black beard dripped down over the front of his coat .
he turned his surly , half-closed eyes toward us , stared for a second , then shouted in yiddish , `` one , two , three '' ! !
the little boys shrilled out a yiddish translation or interpretation of the five books of moses , which they had previously chanted in hebrew .
each boy opened his small mouth wide and rocked back and forth on the bench in the way his grandfather and great-grandfather had studied and prayed in the ghettos of europe .
they had large bright eyes , the small upturned noses of all babies everywhere , and hair cropped short except for the long ringlets of paot framing their little white faces .
since they did not glance curiously at us once , i guessed that there was a penalty for distraction .
the teacher plunged the children into a new portion , this time in hebrew , rapping the stick incessantly .
his tightly curled paot hung down to his narrow shoulders .
his head barely rose above the table .
he did not return my interest .
some of them ignored the texts and had apparently memorized the words long ago .
the tapping defined the rhythm and kept the boys awake .
his body pitched back and forth on the bench .
i shuddered and backed out of the room .
we walked down the cool hall silently .
i said , `` how long do they keep that up '' ? ?
`` except for shabbat , when they are praying all day '' .
they had turned numb and prickly in the classroom .
he glanced down into his beard and muttered something in yiddish .
she passed by him .
then i picked it up again and handed it to the old man .
i didn't look at him .
`` does this bother you '' ? ?
she smiled to herself .
when we were fighting , a few of our orthodox people were lying down in the roads so we could not pass .
i was amazed .
you had to be stupid or crazy or immortal .
i was american .
all of it might have been heroic , but they had done it in the wrong place .
rachel faced me .
she said , `` sometimes i think they are keeping religion for us while we play around .
she wished to change much for the children here '' .
in this section '' ? ?
`` here , nothing .
she loved the children .
when she loved , it was with a passion that drove her along and carried along with her those things she loved .
she stayed here to work for aliah .
sometimes it was dangerous for her '' .
`` but she loved danger .
she chose it .
she was most strange woman .
it was an impulse when she was here in me'a she'arim -- i was with her -- that led her to stay in israel .
here they did not need to be in ghettos .
she set out to make sure that no jewish child anyplace in the world had to live in a place such as this '' .
i'd like to know that very much '' .
the soles of her sandals reported sharply on the cobblestones .
but she sighed and her face relaxed .
she had good friends here , people who liked her .
but she had to go out and hurt herself .
he helped her meet people so she could go out and do the work she wanted .
there was a refugee who was able to come here because of her .
at first i thought they were relatives of your mother , but it was not so .
he had the black numerals on his arm , so he had been branded in a concentration camp .
often he was terribly despondent and talked to no one .
all his family was dead , except for his son .
he loved the son and was always glad to be sent back to him .
a few hours after the son was arrested , your mother was informed .
we were sitting together , talking .
rachel paused .
then she continued with energy , `` i myself did not see her until a week after she had run off to find the father .
`` yes '' , i said .
rachel gave me a direct , bright-eyed look .
he said she would only hurt herself .
when i did , she shrugged her shoulders and said that reuveni wanted her to marry him .
he had known when he first helped her to meet the right people and work with them that she did not intend to marry him .
she came to me one day .
she was terribly alone .
he shouted at her and told her he loved her and couldn't understand why she had upset herself .
he would never let her harm herself again .
she let him lead her around .
reuveni took her with him wherever he went .
he did not let her choose her own food .
she did not care .
the two of them against the world .
for when he began to talk and dream all at the same time , making his plans as he went , she had begun dreaming too .
the big waking up had happened .
she thought .
or maybe poling up the south fork of the forked deer river braving the wastes dumped in it ? ?
and i'll take you with me .
wednesday nights after youth fellowship .
and the bed that sagged in a certain place where all the weight had been put too many times before and the walls fine and thin for overhearing talk in the next room when gratt went out for ice , the sound coming through the walls like something on the other side of the curtain , so you knew they heard you when they were quiet and while you lay wondering what they had heard you listened .
like mattie and the mayor up there gripping the microphone and toonker burkette back in his office yanking out teeth , like they all knew he would .
or you could hope the parachute wouldn't open just so you could say you saw it not open , not because you meant any harm to starkey poe in his suit of red underwear , but mainly because you were tired of being an old maid -- a thing which cannot admit when it thinks it might be pregnant , but must stand the dizzy feeling all alone and go on like everything is all right instead of being able to say to somebody in a normal voice : `` i think i'm pregnant '' .
or you could wish your daddy would really do it -- kill gratt shafer like he said when you all the time , all along , could feel the nerve draining out of him like air out of a punctured tire when you are on a muddy road alone and it is raining and at night .
and every sound that might be the rain also might be the man who thinks after he has raped you he has to beat your brains out with a tire tool so you won't tell , a combination like ham and eggs , rape her and kill her , and that is being an old maid too .
and most of all it is not having the only man you could love , whether he drives a bread truck or delivers the mail or checks the berry crates down at the sheds , or owns seventeen oil wells and six diamond mines , for if you are anybody what he is or does makes no difference if he is the one .
and he can be on the way to memphis , your gratt shafer can , and you discover you can stay alive and hate him and love him and want him even if it means you want him -- really want him -- dead .
for you don't share him , not even with god .
and i'll take you with me .
even when he is on the way to memphis you will still have the promise resting inside you like a gift , and it is he inside of you .
you feel him every mile further away .
and you know you will always wonder all of your life whether it was because you wanted him so bad that you didn't get him , and you can feel nearly sorry enough to cry when you think of that other guy , the chump who begged you to marry him , the one with the plastered hair and the car he couldn't afford and the too-shiny shoes .
it comes to you that probably he did feel that way to let you use him like you did when you couldn't have gratt shafer ; ;
it dawns on you that instead of a lump to fill the seat across the bridge table from you , he was a man , and that because gratt shafer was making you miserable , you were passing it down to him , to gratt shafer's substitute , that other guy .
you wonder if he looks at his wife now and thinks of you .
`` damn the world '' , she thought .
the mayor envisioned factories there .
the bands were impatient , but they were the only ones .
it was like being in the concert hall in the afternoon and hearing the piano virtuoso rehearsing .
so they stayed quiet and hung not on what he said but on how he said it , not listening exactly , but rather , feeling .
you were sorry when he finished talking because while he was up there you were someone else and the world was something else too .
you laughed and then your chest swelled and you felt you could cry for a little bit , and then a feeling hit you like a chill in your stomach and the goose bumps rippled along your arm .
while he talked you wouldn't trade being a west tennessee farmer for being anything else in the whole damned world , no matter if it hadn't , in six weeks , rained enough to wet a rat's ass .
`` i should have stayed at the store '' , she thought .
there was no lock because herman didn't allow a lock .
the toilet hadn't had a sincere scrubbing in years and there were things written on the walls of the little boxed-in place because you couldn't keep the public out -- entirely .
the two little bangs meant that he was getting impatient to have a crowd of customers waited on and that if he had to he would jerk open the door and drag out , by the opposite door handle which she would be clutching , whichever-the-hell clerk it was who thought she could waste so much store time on the pot .
among us , we three handled quite a few small commissions , from spot drawings for advertising agencies uptown to magazine work and quick lettering jobs .
george did wonderful complicated pen-and-ink drawings like something out of a medieval miniature : hundreds of delicate details crammed into an eight-by-ten sheet and looking as if they had been done under a jeweler's glass .
i did book jackets and covers for paperback reprints : naked girls huddling in corners of dingy furnished rooms while at the doorway , daring the cops to take him , is the guy in shirt sleeves clutching a revolver .
i remember once i did a jacket for magpie press ; ;
i even ferreted out the materials from which shields were made -- linden wood covered with leather -- so i'd get the light reflections accurate .
in the first place , it's static ; ;
and in the third place , it would cost a fortune to reproduce in the first place -- you've got six colors there including gold '' .
he said , `` that may be , but it isn't authentic the way readers think .
and girls couldn't have dressed like that -- it isn't transparent enough '' .
mckenzie was as happy as a clam .
as for donald , he actually sold paintings .
not much ; ;
he had style , a real inner vision of his very own .
there was the freshness of color , the freedom of perception , the lack of self-consciousness , but with a twist that made the forms leap from the page and smack you in the eye .
it may have been true for all i know , because his glasses were like the bottoms of milk bottles , but it didn't prevent the paintings from being exciting .
he would look right through you while you were talking to him , and if you said , `` for christ's sake , donald , you've got prussian blue all over your shirt '' , he would smile , and nod , and an hour later the paint would be all over his pants as well .
it was all gravy , and donald didn't need much to live on ; ;
we shared the expenses of the studio , and we all lived within walking distance of it , in cheap lodgings of one kind or another .
i wanted to paint again .
it wasn't just the pressure of work , although that was the excuse i often used , even to myself .
i kept saying , `` if i could just build up a reputation for myself , make some real money , get to be well known as an illustrator -- like peter askington , for instance -- then i could take some time off and paint '' .
i had admired him long before i talked to him .
the night we first met , at one of mrs. monmouth's giant parties , he was wearing a brown cashmere jacket with silver buttons and a soft pink viyella shirt ; ;
this set his tone : richness of texture and color , and another kind of richness as well , for his clothing and decorations would have paid the brush-off's rent for a year .
he didn't look like what i thought of as an old man , and his lively and erudite speech made him seem even younger .
you saw one of his paintings on the cover of one or another of the slick national magazines every month .
the corner of it you could see in the photograph looked as though it ought to have velasquez in it painting the royalty of spain .
we went into mrs. monmouth's library , which had low bookshelves all along the walls , and above them a modigliani portrait , a jackson pollock twelve feet long , and a gorgeous miro with a yellow background , that looked like an inscription from a martian tomb .
like certain expensive restaurants , just sitting there gave you the illusion of being wealthy yourself .
`` by yourself '' ? ?
`` no , i take classes with different people '' , he said .
besides , it's important to the way a painter thinks that he should move in a certain atmosphere , an atmosphere in which he may absorb the ideas of other masters , as durer went to italy to meet bellini and mantegna '' .
`` painting isn't this big , you know .
it is as large as all of art , interdependent , varied , multitudinous '' .
`` the artist is like a fragment of a mosaic -- no , he is more than that , a virtuoso performer in some vast philharmonic .
the eye is all , inward or outward .
`` what do you study '' ? ?
i was fascinated ; ;
`` i'm studying anatomy with burns '' , he replied .
he teaches at the manhattan school of art '' .
i had studied with burns ten years before , during the scholarship year the manhattan gave me , along with the five-hundred-dollar prize for my paintings of bums on hudson street .
`` i'm also studying enameling with hajime iijima '' , he went on , `` and twice a week i go to a life class taught by pendleton '' .
i said .
he must be a million years old .
`` not quite '' .
`` he's about sixty , now .
he even makes the city look like one of thoreau's hangouts .
`` yes , it sounds great '' , i said , `` but suppose you don't think of yourself as an impressionist painter '' ? ?
`` he has the magical eye .
contact with him is stimulating .
they lack stimulation .
that's one of the reasons art is becoming a useless occupation .
he was an artisan , a man who studied his trade and developed his craftsmanship the way a goldsmith or a wood carver did .
he was a propagandist -- they weren't afraid of the word , then -- satirist , nature lover , philosopher , scientist , what you will , a member of every party and of no party .
we hold safe little jobs illustrating tooth-paste ads or the salacious incidents in trivial novels , and most of our easel painting is nothing but picking the fluff out of the navel so it can be contemplated in greater purity .
what we need is to get back to the group , to learning and apprenticeship , to the cafe and the school '' .
the upshot of the evening was that i got the address of pendleton's studio -- or rather , of the studio in which he gave his classes , for he didn't work there himself -- and joined the life class , which met every tuesday and thursday from ten to twelve in the morning .
after a short time , both george and donald joined the class with me so they wouldn't feel lonely , and we used to hang a sign on the door of the brush-off reading out to work .
in a way , askington was right .
i don't know that it was always as rewarding as i had expected it to be .
i had come prepared to worship at the feet of this classic , and he turned out to be a rather bitter old man who smelled of dead cigars .
actually , there was a lot of force in him , which is why i kept on in that class instead of quitting after a week .
`` ida , where is the car license '' ? ?
`` i can't find it in the glove compartment '' .
`` via '' , she was frowning .
had she forgotten she had signed the car away , that whatever they mutually owned had been divided among the children ? ?
i didn't want to stir things up .
`` i'm sure she'd turn it over to you , if you'd rather .
she looked as if she were accusing me of some fraud .
i'll call her '' .
i want nothing of via's '' .
walter was giving me checks for my pay , the household bills .
`` what a fool i've been '' , she said quietly .
i don't even own the house i'm standing in .
`` it narrows down down down and finally there is no way out .
i suppose i should have paid attention to that half-murmured remark , but it seemed one of those extreme statements women under stress indulge in .
so i went about my business .
`` don't bother , ida '' , she said .
at last , i thought , she's recovering her spirits .
i felt more cheerful , as if i had had a part in bringing her through to a greater tolerance of herself .
it was foggy that evening , but the path to my house was so well grooved that i could feel my way , accustomed as i was to the dense mists that rise from the sun-warmed palisades of the river and sometimes last for days .
i did notice a twinkle of light from the big house through the woods but as i had left a light on in my own house because of the fog i assumed mrs. salter had done the same before she left for town .
but the next day -- sunday .
prisoners brought to the dock accused of murder or accident say they cannot remember , and reading the accounts of their testimony you cannot believe that the mind can remove , absent itself , unsee .
even at a car's length i could sense that something was wrong , and so i followed her up to the turnaround in front of the house .
`` she's nowhere , nowhere '' ! !
the search began , in all the rooms , running upstairs , down , opening closets , talking , exclaiming in rushes and gasps .
and she .
i , who until that day before had been mrs. salter's friend , her equal , was the servant now .
and when they spoke they spoke to each other and not to me .
sitting in the kitchen i recalled every word mrs. salter said that could have been a sign to me .
why didn't that alarm me then ? ?
and then i remembered a few years before after their return from a short trip to rome i had heard her boast , over and over again , `` on the boat people liked me for myself '' .
the last night i had called , but the line was always busy and it reassured me .
but it seemed not from what they were saying .
hanging on and on past any man's patience some final stab of conclusion ? ?
i tried to believe that what must have happened was that , restless , disturbed by this telephone call or whatever , she walked out in the night , as she had a habit of doing .
it's so romantic up there , she used to say , with the broad river gleaming in its moontrack like an enormous dark mirror and all the sounds of the night , so poetic .
but i didn't really think it was as simple as that , nor did anyone else .
was it a hysterical release from the long strain of vigilance of those weeks ? ?
or what was it that , before via , sonny , walter and all , i began almost to dance with shuddering and cry out , `` i knew she'd do it ! !
everyone stared at me and drew back .
and they have never changed .
was that what had given way in me ? ?
it is absurd of course to say that that one exclamation estranged me from the family i considered my very own , but there it hangs , a cooling void that broke our close connection with each other .
in my person they would always remember that last long time of me alone with her , so if they told themselves that i could have prevented it , i can understand that by now and love them still , because everyone must justify , have a scapegoat for what is not to be borne .
it is when i meet someone who was a close friend of the family , and therefore of mine , and they nod to me so coolly and walk away , that it hurts .
no , i forget mrs. mathias , who had been away visiting a married daughter when it happened .
she persisted in explaining how and why she had advised mrs. salter to return to the country .
`` it was nobody's fault .
`` what do you mean '' ? ?
`` why put such a high value on being top dog '' ? ?
it was coarse , almost insulting , this harsh appraisal , and she has never come to see me since .
if she chose , and in that final decision discarded , what , above all , all of us value , life itself , must she not have risen to her fullest height , and transcending her murky self , felt at last the passion of a great moral decision ? ?
yes , i had cried out that i knew she'd do it , but without my fully realizing it at the time , it was a cry of triumph for her , praise at her deliverance from pettiness and greed -- and guilt .
at rest with my darling ellen , the first mrs. salter .
the funeral service was in the house , the methodist minister , how clean and glistening his eyeglasses and his neat body standing beside that coffin with that doll inside , a stranger speaking to strangers the old sacred words , and the rain drumming incessantly in accompaniment , seven days of relentless rain that turned the ground to mud so the burial had to be postponed .
then via called to say they had decided to cremate her -- as they had ellen , the thought leaped to my mind -- and did i want to meet her at the funeral home the next morning .
i knelt , just for decency i thought at the time , but found myself whispering , `` our father which art in heaven '' and it was only after that that something unlocked in me and i felt a grief .
together we waited in her car until the hearse moved out and we followed it down into the heavy traffic of new jersey .
again i felt impelled to kneel , and reached back and pulled via down .
`` i had a rather small place of my own .
`` uhhu '' , she said , hardly listening as she studied her left eyelid .
`` uhhu '' .
`` oh , i'd drink with newspaper people .
but i think a man needs at least one intimate friend to communicate with '' .
she showed no interest at all in the life he had led back home , and it hurt him a little .
`` me '' ? ?
`` what about me '' ? ?
`` umm , uhhu '' .
how about it '' ? ?
when she had wiped some of the lipstick from her mouth , she stared solemnly at her image in the mirror .
he asked , trying to touch a part of her life alberto hadn't discussed ; ;
`` you talk so well , carla '' , he went on .
`` you must have been good at history at school .
`` what is this '' ? ?
`` don't you know all about me by this time ? ?
this is my town .
you know something more about me every day , don't you ? ?
why are you trying to worry me '' ? ?
`` well , all right then '' .
at home he had been a clean orderly man , and now he had to hide his annoyance .
he wondered .
he straightened up , ready to vent his exasperation , then grew afraid .
`` what's the matter '' ? ?
`` nothing .
`` are those the only shoes you have , sam '' ? ?
`` the heavy thick soles .
`` they're an expensive english shoe for walking around a lot .
`` sam , no one around here wears such heavy soles .
`` maybe i could '' , he said , surprised that she could turn from herself and notice anything about him .
`` and i don't know why you want to go on wearing that outfit '' , she said , making a face .
he had put on the gray jacket and the dark-gray slacks and the fawn-colored shirt he had worn that first night in rome when he had encountered her on the street .
you look like a tweedy englishman .
`` i don't mind at all '' , he said , delighted with her attention .
but it was a hopeful sign , he told himself .
that day they loafed around , just getting the feel of the city .
she had some amusing scandal about the farneses in the old days .
`` there's a church you should see '' , she said .
he let her tell him all about the church .
all evening she was eloquent and pleased with herself .
and in the morning when he woke up at ten the church bells were ringing .
it was a good thing that she clung to her religion , he thought .
`` carla , wake up '' , he said shaking her .
aren't you going out to mass ? ?
`` uhhu '' , she muttered .
`` i think i'll sleep in this morning '' , she said drowsily , and as she snuggled against him , he wondered if she ever went to church .
he wondered probably because it was a place where she might get a feeling of certainty and security .
it was too bad he had no feeling himself for church .
she would have been better off if she had stuck to her bible .
from the time he had been at college he had achieved a certain tranquility and composure by accepting the fact that there were certain things he could never know .
just figures out of a tribal folklore .
being a woman though , she would take only what she needed from church .
or a protestant , or one of those amusing dogmatic atheists , or a strict orthodox communist .
it was the times , he was sure .
it was all too wearying .
but where ? ?
a half hour later he got her up to go out for breakfast so the ferraros , hearing them hurrying down the stairs , would think they were going to a late mass .
`` since we're having coffee with them this afternoon '' , he said , `` i think i'll ask the daughter if we can pay her to come in every day to clean for us '' .
there's so little to do '' .
she said .
`` if you find it necessary , sam , go ahead '' , she said , turning on the stair .
i can't help it '' .
he didn't know how she would behave with other people .
`` ciao , '' and put out her hand .
agnese , smiling too , said , `` 'ello '' , and then more slowly , `` i am happy '' .
the ferraros offered them biscuits with the coffee .
she would turn to them , then turn to him , then turn again .
signora ferraro , bobbing her head encouragingly , asked sam about canada , having a special interest .
the old woman had a nephew from north italy , a poor boy from a lumber mill who had got tired of the seasonal unemployment , and who had migrated to canada to work on the railway .
did many of sam's countrymen live in boxcars in the bush ? ?
she wanted to know .
just the same , the old woman said , she would write to her nephew in his boxcar and tell him she had met a nice man from his adopted country .
a very great pope , this one , the old woman explained , her black eyes sparkling .
but very mystical too .
just as thousands that day in portugal had seen the sun dancing in the sky , he had seen the same thing later in his own garden , and she turned to agnese for confirmation .
now a little flush came on her pale homely face and enchantment in her eyes .
yes , the pope could die and quickly be made a saint .
nodding approvingly and swelling with importance , the old lady whispered confidentially .
the pope , in the splendor of his great intellect , had neglected them a little .
jobs would be lost and new faces would become prominent .
indeed he did , sam said solemnly , trying to get carla's eye .
devout , orthodox and plain like a family she might meet in brooklyn or malta or ireland .
and carla , watching in wonder , turned to sam .
it's like a flame , i guess '' , she said in a dreamy tone .
with the blue flesh of night touching him he stood under a gentle hill caressing the flageolet with his lips , making it whisper .
in her dark , scornful fashion she proceeded to her destination , afraid of nothing , not even the evil spirits which kept her company in her time of bleeding .
even he , wanting her , afraid of her and not knowing how to press his suit , feared the evil presences in her metabolism more .
going , he saw as often before some queer , hideous yellow face over his head , shining and weird like the old images which had invested him at other times like those that appear sometimes near the eyeballs when they are perhaps pressed by the thumbs .
then he fled , not waiting to see if she minded him or took notice of his cry .
yet she did not hesitate and only turned slightly , her neck tall as she looked in his direction , and continued on her way toward the end of the camp .
early spring came from her bed , from beside her half-drunk husband , walitzee , and stood at the entrance way to her lodge hearing the mild commotion , the sound of hushed voices .
when at last she could suffer the insult no longer , nor face the girl's scorn , she said in a voice overloud :
go back where you can bring no harm , or i will go and get the old man from his bed so he can see your shame '' ! !
and it was not pile of clouds she meant .
i will tell you to go , not begging .
and unsheathing the knife she used for curing hides she stepped away from the lodge , holding the knife at her side .
speaking in a low voice of loathing she went up to the girl , who stood with the same upright , scornful bearing and did not even look at the knife .
`` they do not have to face battle .
i will simply kill you first .
the other women had come close now , their voices murmuring together until they stood buzzing in an angry knot , their threats mingling , rising , nagging at each other , each trying to make her indignation and anger felt .
the sticks fell like a shower around her and she felt them sting her flesh and send tiny points of pain along her thighs .
but she did not move , taking the words and the sticks in that old defiance of her extreme youth until suddenly pile of clouds came howling among them , swinging a great bullhide whip .
he shouted .
he made the long whip sing and snap around their heads so that they ran screaming , some tripping over themselves in their flight .
`` if you must flog someone , let it be her , your daughter .
but the old man turned on her , jerking the whip from her hand .
he spat .
keep him back , if you must tell me what to do .
she retreated before the naked shame in the old man and the fury beyond it and sank into the darkness of her lodge where walitzee stirred , mumbling , sitting up in a half stupor to say :
i thought i dreamed of wolves fighting '' .
she said , `` there is nothing that concerns you here .
but do not dream .
he sank back , sighing , and was soon asleep again .
and , shoving her against a spruce , her back to him , he retreated with the whip and made it whine and crack in the damp air , shortening its arc until it narrowed to her flesh and the sound of it snarled and cracked , settling its own cruel demons on her shoulders while she stood as unchanged , as dark and motionless as ever , her eyes open and staring at the pale delineaments of the bark so close to her face .
is it for me to be forbidden the flesh you made grow on me ? ?
she stared at the pale tracings on the tree , hearing her breath refracted from it , her face close and touching at time the rough edges of the bark .
sssshoo '' ! !
suddenly the lash stopped fighting the air and she heard pile of clouds say in his high , quavering voice :
move from the line or i will settle the whip on you .
do you hear the anger of the whip's whine '' ? ?
he said , `` let me take her blows , for there are demons in me too '' .
for a while the young men waited outside the lodge of tuhulhulzote , glorying in his harsh language as he talked with himself .
he ranted and prophesied the doom of his enemies , walking in circles in and out of his living place , drinking stolen whisky in great , gasping draughts until finally , incoherent and sick , he fell into his own oblivion .
but they could taste the appeasement of violence and retribution through his antics .
they came out and held their games and races .
they went into the sun together and paraded grandly in their war clothes , painting their faces with the sacred attis dug far off in the cave of skeletons .
walitzee was among them , and sarpsis , and they wore red blankets which flew like broad wings in the air of their passing .
yellow wolf was there , nephew of the young chief by an older brother long dead , in whom also the disordered chemistries of youth worked .
all the young men , alokut among them , challenged them in matched racing .
at times they would ride frenziedly through the camp , letting the women see their courage , how handsome they were in their regalia .
they combed their hair and streaked it at the part and greased the bangs so that the hair above their foreheads stood rigid like the tails of sage hens making love .
he saw himself in a superior reflection , and he was as a speeding arrow from the taut bow , hurtling with a mad grace , his maleness shining and scented with meadow rue .
and the suspicious , envenomed eyes of pile of clouds .
he felt so much like laughing ; ;
he and sarpsis planned a great parade with the young men .
they would ride with streaming amulets , their colors ripening in the sun , shouting the last bellicosity of a nation in the throes of death .
they mounted their horses and rode off into the hills .
young chief stared at the wall of his lodge , , listening .
he saw them in fleet images as they came rolling and now burst across the ridge .
they leaned into the wind and seemed like one thousand-legged monster hurtling and plunging until suddenly they rose straight in their saddles and in one terrifying voice shouted , ejaculated their grotesque cry of war .
the sounds from the quarry began to pulse in her ears .
she had never been here at this hour .
but she found the path she always used , the stubs of branches she had broken , those she had pushed aside ; ;
if i ever committed suicide , she thought , i would dive straight down from here -- and no one would find me for days .
she jumped out onto the flat expanse of rock and , seating herself , shook her short-cut brown hair and tilted her chin far upward .
julia felt at peace and drew her legs up and clasped her hands tightly around the bent knees .
this was her place .
only -- only -- her thoughts were a little strange .
perhaps it was because it was so late , and because she had no business to be here now .
`` hello , julie , how are you '' ? ?
i wish he was with me now , she thought , and that we were both the ages we are and doing what was once only pretense and acute embarrassment .
i wish i were older or younger , julia bentley thought .
george rawlings remembered seeing the door open sometime during the night -- millie , in a white robe , standing like a ghost at the threshold .
he must have slept again .
it seemed too much trouble even to reach for the switch ; ;
this room was like a prison .
below him , as if at the end of some remote tunnel , he heard the humming of a vacuum cleaner .
they had left both of his eyes uncovered .
he drank a glass of water and gripped the sink with both hands .
he recognized his jacket and trousers .
the stains weren't too apparent ; ;
he shivered , and then tore away the blood-soaked parts and wound the rest around his neck like a scarf .
millie would have to understand .
he found a lump rising in his throat because of that one simple act of tidiness .
alex poldowski -- in a fashion he owed a debt to that effete gentleman .
perhaps george rawlings would be better off dead .
he peered at his wristwatch .
a quarter to seven .
he was kneeling to tie his shoelaces .
he rose slowly and looked into the mirror on the inside of the closet door .
this was some freak , two strands of adhesive tape across his nose , like ugly roots from the mass of gauze , suddenly moist over his cheekbones .
he was drinking another glass of water .
he was supposed to be in court this afternoon , at city hall .
he'd have to think , but the main thing , the imperative necessity , was to leave before sam bentley was up and about , and before millie detained him with sympathy .
he was actually walking down the stairs .
`` father , is that you '' ? ?
george did not reply .
who's there '' ? ?
then julia appeared under the arch leading to the dining room .
`` uncle george '' ! !
`` gosh ! !
`` i -- i was just leaving here , julie .
just about to call a taxi '' .
she seemed overly tall , her brow knitted in concern .
`` i'm about to leave myself .
`` you're leaving '' ? ?
`` pietro's driving me .
but have you told mother you were going '' ? ?
`` no .
that's my wish .
her face seemed to float in an implausibly bright shaft of sunlight .
or maybe a drink '' ? ?
he tried to see her face more clearly .
`` i'll just wait for you here '' .
he raised them .
`` i have to say good-bye upstairs .
`` as a great favor , julie '' , he said , `` please don't mention you've seen me '' .
`` no -- please .
it'll be so much easier '' .
`` i'm fine , julie .
she had disappeared .
he imagined sam's voice : `` george , what the hell goes on '' ? ?
maybe i couldn't have called a taxi .
he saw the suitcase , which julia was holding .
`` i'll take that , julie -- for you '' .
`` i can manage '' .
outside the lincoln was parked .
pietro was gazing at him in an insolent , disdainful fashion ; ;
we'll drop mr. rawlings off in ardmore '' , julia said , and for the merest second george was reminded of her father's tone with servants .
yet her inflection seemed forced or rehearsed .
he had never felt particularly close to her .
he took her hand .
that's in the opposite direction '' .
`` i wish i wasn't wearing this ridiculous costume , and that we could go to a theater together , or a nice restaurant , forget we knew '' he stopped speaking .
`` oh , just sort of everything in general '' .
`` i know you feel badly , but that sounds like such a queer thing for you to say '' .
he asked .
i'm supposed to joke about things , aren't i ? ?
his voice seemed thick and purposeless .
he could see the stone building where he lived .
abruptly he reached into his pocket .
`` are you positive you'll be all right by yourself '' ? ?
for a moment he smiled .
you've done me the greatest possible service .
`` take care of yourself then '' .
you , also .
it was an automatic phrase ; ;
he should have discovered a more tender farewell .
will you look at george rawlings ! !
`` i bumped into a door handle '' , george said .
george walked steadily ahead into his entry .
he had shut his door with the brass number screwed to it .
just one or two swallows , he told himself , enough to lessen some of the pain .
`` no , millie , i'm home .
tell sam not to worry about the car .
no , please -- no visit today -- i'll be asleep .
that upsets me more than anything .
''
`` joan , did i wake you '' ? ?
`` yes , i thought you'd probably be up .
happened to be driving somewhat intoxicated last night .
oh hell no , i'm not in a hospital .
too bad a jury isn't involved .
i'd win hands down .
he'll understand -- you might give him sort of a tactful nudge .
i wouldn't want to ask for a postponement -- it's really just a routine thing .
no , darling i'd rather you didn't come out '' .
`` don't even send flowers .
i'll bribe you with a nice '' -- he was about to say `` double martini '' but thought better of it .
okay ? ?
he had put down the receiver .
who knew about it ? ?
she had two tiny rooms on the second floor .
she let him come and go as he pleased , or as it pleased her .
yet if he said : make an excuse yourself , come out here today , she would have been on the next train -- and , similarly , if she had been in need , he would have gone to her .
`` that's a peculiar way to think '' .
she knew that .
she's a year older than i am , lucy told herself .
`` i love you .
lucy listened .
upstairs , busy feet , showering like raindrops , pattered around her room .
she always packed for a lifetime , just in case .
every doll in the house must be going with her '' .
it's a long way to websterville '' .
as he looked at her , it registered anxiety .
`` myra wanted me to thank you for taking cathy .
lucy did not believe him ; ;
jim had put the thanks in his sister's mouth .
`` she should have told me herself .
remember what happened the last time '' ? ?
but she had stayed all winter , and cathy had stayed all winter too -- with them .
`` that was an awfully long two weeks '' .
`` but she promised -- this will be different '' , he said at last .
you'll see , myra's settling down '' .
`` it depends on the widow '' .
and not for one moment did she believe that myra had settled down .
remembering that succession of disasters , she now considered cathy , an ominous child-cloud on her horizon .
the youngster drew her , troubled her depths ; ;
but cathy was myra's responsibility , not hers .
myra loved big cities ; ;
lucy knew her too well to find it impossible .
jim was so indignant it was obvious that no matter what he said , he too had seen the looming specter of a forever-cathy .
susan ! !
a startled piping sound returned .
was it only a few nights ago that they had been standing together in front of the house looking at the moon-washed river ? ?
their talk and their feeling had been as deep and warm , as steeped in light , as the air around them .
myra , with her news , was on the other end of the line .
his dark brows , which had been lowered in anger , smoothed .
`` there isn't a chance of myra's letting anything like that happen .
they were husband and wife , and myra had no right muddling and chilling their marriage .
lucy was sick of it .
susan looked like an overwhelmed baby nurse ; ;
`` i'm ready '' , she announced .
jim said .
`` all that junk '' ? ?
to her , each of her dolls was a real person with a living heart .
`` your father didn't mean it , susan '' .
`` she'll take every one of them '' .
and when you get back from grandma's , cathy will be here to play with you .
`` no '' , susan said , grappling with her outsized armload of dolls with a scrooge-like effect .
there ought to be a limit to sharing , too .
the last one had been a lilliputian war .
when the car , with susan's hands waving wildly from the rear window , disappeared down the driveway , lucy stood looking after its pale dust .
she had let jim go with a chilly good-by , a chillier kiss .
she turned and began to walk toward the house .
the handsome bird was solitary ; ;
she had better stay there , lucy thought ; ;
well , lucy ? ?
she had a day of things to do ; ;
how long would it be occupied ? ?
as long as the unscrupulous myra chose ? ?
it isn't only birds that dump their children in other people's nests .
there were new yellow curtains , bright as a child's life ought to be , a new bedspread , lively with hopping rabbits , and hanging from the ceiling was an airy mother goose mobile , spinning slowly in the breeze .
since myra had always put most of greg's money on her own back , lucy suspected that no more than a few of that long row would be needed .
many times since his death that memory had worried and troubled her .
when she picked up the receiver , her mother's cheerful voice was there .
`` i just thought i'd let you know .
i'd have phoned sooner but i've been busy '' .
susan was an active character ; ;
lucy drew out the chair and sat down ; ;
you could think yourself as grown up as methuselah , yet the maternal voice still kept its comforting magic .
`` subdued .
on her way to the airport , on her way to paris -- you bet , lucy said to herself .
there was a momentary pause , and then her mother said , `` how long is she supposed to stay '' ? ?
`` well '' -- this time there was a long silence , while the telephone hummed faintly with a voiceless life .
her mother was forthright ; ;
was she thinking along the same lines lucy was -- that it was quite possible cathy might be left with her for good ? ?
once the soft , pretty moth found the bright light she had always wanted ? ?
again there was that curious pause , and then her mother said , `` i guess i do .
she hesitated , as though hunting over words and ways of putting them .
shocked speechless , lucy sat there .
`` christmastime ! !
it was only too true .
for a moment , anger darkened the hallway about her , and when she found her voice , anger thickened it .
she said .
then , if myra does nothing about fetching her , i'll pack her right back to her mother -- if i have to take her myself '' ! !
`` and that's what i'm going to tell jim '' .
as she hung up , she saw through the hall's open window the purple-black flying of the cowbirds' wings , and heard their grotesque singing .
she's not going to get away with it .
the child's thin legs were plodding .
she was at the moment just a small , walking package , being delivered to her aunt's and uncle's house .
the worn teddy bear , a tiny suitcase that jim carried , and the clothes she wore , were all she had .
they would have to buy things for her .
unimpressed , the dog plopped on the sand .
for eleven days they'd done the same thing , leaving the cottage quietly before breakfast , before esperanza beach got jammed with tourists and beach balls and show-offy lifeguards .
they walked slowly past the sherbet-colored cottages -- eleven lemon , nine mint , seven orange -- around the curve to a deserted stand with an `` eats '' sign jiggling in the wind .
nobody around .
his rock was to the right of a v-shaped inlet , a big , brown , lumpy rock trailing seaweed whiskers .
here he was enclosed and safe .
)
he was canute controlling the waves .
( one good thing about a suit of armor , his leg wouldn't show .
he was six feet one like his father , with big hands and a hairy chest , a man the weak and persecuted would turn to .
every night when he wanted a drink of water , didn't he practice being fearless by not turning on the bathroom light ? ?
he hadn't intended to make the promise .
every piece of the nightmare was clear , in place ; ;
it's all right .
he could remember the feel of his father's big hands , the thump of his father's heart sending out signals -- regular , like radar .
while i'm gone you get brown and fat as a pig , hear ? ?
dr. fortman says swimming would help your leg .
`` how does he know ? ?
he never had polio '' .
`` you just wait , dad .
wait and see , dad '' .
he called her `` fatso '' .
or , what was worse , she prayed for him out loud at bedtime : `` please , lord gord , please give my brother the strength to go swimming like he promised '' .
quint said now to the clouds .
he felt strong as a giant .
he wadded his sweat shirt into a ball and stripped down to his swimming trunks .
`` aw , shut up '' , he said .
the wind bored a hole between his shoulder blades , and when he looked at the choppy waves coming and going and crossing each other he could see his head down there , bleeding , wedged between the rocks and the waves .
i'm scared of the nightmare .
and shivering with shame , he crawled to the narrow end of the rock and spat into the water .
she was holding on to his rock with one hand .
she wore a bathing suit like his mother's , no straps on the shouders .
he snapped .
`` isn't '' .
`` isn't '' .
she was sore as a boil .
`` sure .
`` mister big britches , aren't you '' ? ?
they call me quint '' .
`` i said quint .
quintus in latin means '' --
her cough sounded like cloth ripping .
`` i don't smoke '' .
`` do you '' ? ?
not having said `` hell '' before , he stumbled a bit before gathering momentum .
`` if i was your mama , i'd wop your tail off '' .
i've got this leg brace '' .
`` dingy-looking '' , was what she said .
`` because maybe i won't have to wear it always .
she spouted a mouthful of water into the air .
someone's walking past , you want to stop him , zoooop , snag him around the neck with the crook in your cane .
hey , will you look at that '' ? ?
`` that's some dog .
`` part collie , part wire-haired terrier '' .
he always did when people asked .
`` his real name's dimaggio , only we call him maggie because he has to take tranquilizers .
he's been sick lately .
`` a what '' ? ?
that meant `` mama wants you quint .
even though this is my rock , you can use it sometimes .
`` so do i .
that was how they started being friends .
same time , early , before the fog burned off , because she didn't like the sun ; ;
her name was sabella , and the strip of seaweed around her neck was an emerald necklace the king gave her as a token of his undying love .
`` no .
my hair is what he's nuts about .
personally , i prefer straight hair like yours , but as they say on the continent , ' what can one do ' '' ? ?
`` name one , i been there '' .
then they scraped off the mold and made fish soup .
camels in tripoli had harelips .
as for dancing -- holy mackerel , he ought to see the gypsies in jerez ; ;
`` really '' .
she made better pictures than any book he'd read , but he didn't say so .
that his baby sister could spit up through her nose when she felt like it ; ;
`` books are for schnooks '' .
nobody ever appreciated his jokes as much as sabella .
and `` what time did the chinaman go to the dentist ? ?
) encouraged by her giggles he imitated maggie who was crazy about ham .
he snuck up on the ham like maggie , gumming it with soft , stumpy teeth , then panting with thirst , lapping up the water in the lagoon , swelling up like a balloon , staggering home to be sick , while his mother said , `` that does it .
`` say , you're quite a comic '' , sabella said admiringly .
he hadn't .
`` either that or a veterinarian '' .
`` you can't serve cod and salmon '' .
she said sharks have no bones and shrimp swam backward .
next morning he tied a bunch of sea daisies with string and threw them across the v-shaped inlet to the rock where she was swimming around .
like willie mays in the outfield .
thank you , quint '' .
`` you can always tell a real gentleman -- they got a certain je ne say quok '' .
he daydreamed on the rock while she swam and splashed around .
but victoria began yodeling just then and he went home , carrying sabella in the back of his head , not thinking about her , just knowing she was there , smiling , smelling of peppermints .
wednesday morning it happened .
`` we beseech thee , lord gord , to bless this food '' -- that was victoria saying grace while the baby sprayed raisin toast on her plastic bib .
`` your daddy's in san francisco '' , she told them .
fifteen days early -- isn't that wonderful '' ? ?
a cave seemed to be opening in quint's stomach .
the baby can have an early nap .
quint closed the screen door quietly so maggie wouldn't be scared .
the cave in his stomach hurt .
he'd tell sabella about the nightmare .
what caused it , he didn't know .
sweating so much ? ?
all of it together meant drowning .
when bobbie evans smashed up his car , the jaguar his wife linda had given him for his last birthday , and himself quite thoroughly with it , driving back from an afternoon's golf at oakmont , it seemed to mark the end of a long , miswritten chapter in the social life of the community .
not that linda was heartless , not that she would do anything prematurely or in bad taste any more than john cooper would .
wasn't john cooper even more attractive at forty-seven than he had been twenty-five years earlier ? ?
didn't john cooper , after all this time , deserve something better of life ? ?
and romantic ? ?
it was the kind of thing that could ruin a man's life , and it was a tribute to john's strength of character and very real business ability that it hadn't ruined his .
`` poor john '' ! !
for it had been john and linda ever since she had come out two seasons before at the golf club to the goggle-eyed admiration not only of the stag line but even of her fellow debs .
you saw them always together those years .
john-and-linda were at longue vue last night ; ;
then there was a spat over something , as there had been lovers' spats before ; ;
you still said `` john-and-linda '' , but as if you were speaking of a national catastrophe such as the depression or dillinger .
first , it came out after mr. cooper's will was settled -- he had died the year before -- that john and his mother weren't rich any more .
there was no connection between the two events , because bobbie wasn't rich , either , though he was more aggressive than john .
some people said linda had just announced the engagement to jolt john into some action , but when john came home from a business trip to cleveland with edythe , with edythe his bride , it could no longer be john-and-linda even to sentimental wishful thinkers .
it was simply poor john .
mousie chandler had been to school with her someplace near baltimore and tried to explain rather than defend her to the gang having lunch at horne's .
`` i know she gives the impression of being shallow and frivolous and scatterbrained .
bobbie and linda looked magnificent at their wedding .
she giggled during the ceremony , and mousie chandler , who was one of linda's bridesmaids , said john glared black as death at her .
`` poor john '' ! !
her hair never seemed to be in place and her skirts were never quite the correct length .
and you didn't see her much at longue vue or anywhere , for john had drifted away from the gang .
others thought he couldn't stand seeing linda , mrs. bobbie evans , still so beautiful , so much in command of everything .
john's mother died not long after his marriage , and there was even less cooper money left .
he was not reduced to poverty , but his job at the steel company had become a real job and not a method of passing the day .
it probably wasn't hard for him to keep his nose to the grindstone with nothing but edythe to come home to .
but the continuing charm of the other children -- sally in 1940 and jack in 1944 -- and all john's success at his work only made edythe's dizziness and general uselessness more glaring .
when there was bridge at edythe's house , the cards shuffled like wet graham crackers and the food probably was wet graham crackers .
john did find the missing checks and money afterward , and the drive was actually oversubscribed , which was a real bit of luck for the missionaries .
poor john was the kind of stock that keeps a bargain without whimpering and maybe bends over backward to keep a bad one .
but he got ahead in business : on leave from his job to an important washington assignment during the war ; ;
the coopers saw bobbie and linda socially , but no more than was necessary .
he and linda settled down to being social leaders , and linda managed to look a little more beautiful each year .
everyone held his or her breath .
`` now you know she could've , but she isn't that kind of girl .
poor john '' .
what she felt was a bone-deep loss with a sense of waste to it , not so much sorrow for handsome , ambitious bobbie , but for the lost years that had been brought into high relief by his death .
it was what she had been thinking herself .
there was no one who would blame her or john ; ;
it might be rough on edythe at first , but linda and john between them could make a settlement handsome enough to soothe her , to send her back to cleveland or anywhere .
it would be good for them to have a mother they need not be ashamed of .
but what was a decent six months or so after the more than twenty years gone by ? ?
of course , he had done wonders .
bobbie had been head of the alloy division , while john was just another good salesman in the regular branch .
for linda knew how to help her husband , not just the stuart-family contacts but also the little dinners for reuben lovejoy .
`` what did you do '' ? ?
`` you must have done something , something wrong .
bobbie said something about damned pittsburghers sticking together , and linda got angry at him .
linda dragooned her uncle , donald murkland , into a lunch the next day to find out what had happened .
but jolly old uncle donald would tell her no more than that bobbie had certainly been considered for the job , but there were factors in a large company which outsiders and even some insiders couldn't understand .
`` i'm behind john cooper '' , mr. lovejoy said finally .
`` now , i believe poor john'll work just a little harder .
bobbie , with linda behind him , will have plenty of other opportunities .
`` bobbie will take the job as his just reward and work hard at it ; ;
most of the directors nodded .
after the surprise was over , linda was almost as pleased as anyone with john's good luck , though she agreed with bobbie's decision some months later to move to funk furnaces .
poor john's rise continued to be meteoric .
she called then to say she had a baby-sitter for that night .
such a nice little thing -- lives right in the building '' .
i could get along without that three dollars .
it was past midnight and we were in bed when the phone rang .
i answered to find nadine at the other end .
`` what's wrong '' ? ?
her voice came shrill .
that stupid girl might have gone off and left francie '' ! !
`` she's probably fallen asleep and doesn't hear the phone .
`` i can't leave the party ! !
old mr. thom is already down on wally , and we simply can't afford to get ken mad at us '' --
`` janice , could you possibly go over and make sure everything's all right ? ?
`` i can't make it in ten minutes '' -- wondering , as i said it , why i should make it at all .
`` fifteen minutes , then ! !
i'll be glad to pay you '' --
`` all right '' , i said .
not for the dollar or so nadine would give me .
chris was sound asleep , and i didn't see any sense in waking him .
i drove off through the cool darkness to nadine's apartment and rang the bell , and in a few seconds a young girl opened the door .
`` it's all right '' , i said , as she started to look scared .
i just came over to make sure everything was all right '' .
she didn't look over thirteen .
`` i have to get up early for church tomorrow '' , she went on .
the phone started ringing .
`` i'll answer it '' .
i told nadine everything was fine , and that i'd be getting on home .
there was a ragged edge to her voice now , as if she'd been crying .
you know how gossip of that sort spreads through an apartment building '' --
the receiver clicked in my ear .
well , there wasn't any law that said i had to stay ! !
so i told her mrs. roberts would pay her in the morning , and she scooted off to her own apartment .
i must have dozed off , because i came to with a start at the sound of voices .
i opened the door , and wally stumbled in -- fast -- as if nadine had pushed him .
but now she looked ugly .
`` pack your clothes '' , she hissed .
`` you're crazy '' , wally said thickly .
nadine strode over to him , and her pointed nails raked across his face .
`` you stay out of this '' , she spat at me .
he insulted ken thom '' ! !
`` he told ken to his face that he doesn't have what it takes to get a woman ! !
we're ruined and he's going to get out if i have to throw him down the stairs '' --
i was plenty scared .
`` now you just take it easy , and i'll make you some tea '' --
`` how can you be so damn stupid ? ?
ken will never forgive him -- never ! !
all we own is francie's bedroom set and the televison-record player and we even owe on them .
i clamped my hand over her mouth to stop the stream of filth .
you'll wake up the whole building .
`` well then , i'll get out '' -- but she looked uncertain .
`` you go to bed '' , i said curtly .
she collapsed against me , as if everything inside her snapped .
it was three o'clock before i figured it was all right to go .
wally was snoring on the davenport .
i had done all i was going to do .
i drove home , found chris still asleep .
thankful i wasn't nadine .
in the afternoon nadine and wally came over with francie .
`` i'd had all this trouble with the old man , that's why i drank so much .
old mr. thom himself had stopped at the service station for a grease job , wally confessed , and couldn't get one because there were cars on the pits waiting to be repaired .
mr. thom had gotten wally on the phone , and fired him .
`` but ken got coy and wouldn't make any promises .
`` and told him right to his face he'd never slept with a woman '' ! !
but she was beyond caring what she said .
but i couldn't help thinking that nadine and wally were getting just what they deserved .
when a bubble breaks , there's nothing .
they had not only spent every cent -- they were in debt up to their necks , owing on everything they owned .
worst of all , wally had no training for any kind of work .
chris fretted .
i said i wished we were , too .
but chris brightened up like a candle .
there is one big way we can help them .
something i had simply never thought of .
i just stared at him .
`` i know we'd be pretty crowded .
straightened out -- they'd had years of making all that money ! !
`` nadine was always too good to live in a little house like this ! !
`` that isn't like you , janice '' , chris said uncomfortably .
i didn't want to be like that , mean and bitter .
but , in the end , we did .
the finance company took all their furniture -- and they didn't have a cent to their name .
to my way of thinking , he was scared sick .
chris made trip after trip in our old car , moving the clothes and dishes and the stock of groceries nadine had bought on special .
while i worked , nadine sat and cried .
`` virus infection nothing '' , she'd scream at him .
you're just a no-good bum '' ! !
but it couldn't go on forever -- a couple of weeks , chris had said .
but the two weeks dragged into three , and they were still with us .
he set out every morning looking for work , and come home around noon , full of alibis and excuses .
nobody would even take his application .
`` you can get a job working in a grocery store , if nothing else '' .
`` those damn punks -- taking work away from men who need it '' .
but this was only the middle of july .
i mentioned it to chris one stifling hot night , when i had slipped outside for a breath of fresh air .
but i swear to you from the moment i opened my eyes , i knew it was going to be a bad day .
part of it was being so tired -- i'd not only had my usual full day yesterday , but a dinner meeting as well , that kept me up late .
it was just going to be one of those days .
and for the thousandth time , i answered myself .
actually , i shouldn't complain , i told myself in the shaving mirror .
a profession that brought me as good an income as mine wasn't to be sneezed at .
at least , we were together and we had mrs. hodges , bless her , to look after us -- no mother could be fonder of gladdy than mrs. hodges was .
especially in the way gladdy had turned out .
but i mustn't start on alice .
if she'd kept on as she'd been going , the story i'd told gladdy would probably have been true by now , anyhow
her first class wasn't until ten , but she always got up to have breakfast with me .
oh , i knew that i couldn't give myself all the credit for her decision .
she'd been out with pete the night before and her gay chatter about their date lightened my mood a little .
if she and pete were really getting serious , i'd have to do some hard thinking .
did he have a right to know the secret i'd kept from gladdy all these years ? ?
two interns and dick ishii , the other resident .
pete was down on seven , dick told me , and he'd meet us there .
pete came to meet us when we stepped out of the elevator on seven -- he'd had a case of post-operative shock , but it was all taken care of now .
when we'd finished our regular rounds , pete pointed me toward the small ward at the end of the floor .
`` i haven't seen her yet , but i hear she's a lulu '' ! !
the ward was a small one , four beds , kept reserved for female alcoholics .
it was thought wiser to keep them segregated from the patients in the regular charity ward .
they'd cleaned her up some , of course , and she'd pretty much slept off her drunk .
alice but this woman's name was rose bancroft ! !
yes , rose bancroft , diagnosis : acute alcoholism .
an ugly scar disfigured the somewhat familiar puffy face , already marred by the tell-tale network of broken red veins that heavy drinkers carry .
oh , could it be ? ?
in a low voice , dick filled us in
although quiet when they brought her in , she'd suddenly turned violent and had to be knocked out .
we'd keep her a day or two , and the aa people would talk to her .
turning toward the patient again , i -- i can't describe what happened to me then , except to say that i felt sick .
`` now , miss -- or is it mrs. bancroft '' ? ?
this was one time i'd have gladly broken my own rule , but habit was too strong .
her voice was flat and dull .
it was then that i saw what the drawn-back covers revealed .
`` what's this '' ? ?
`` your period '' ? ?
`` i been spotting a little now and then '' , she said quietly , no emotion in her voice .
once again , there was a negative shake .
`` better do a papanicolaou '' , i told pete .
pete stood by with a slide and took the smear , sent it down to the lab with a request for the test .
i was busy the rest of the day .
one of my private patients was being admitted and i went in to see her settled .
`` i've got the results on the bancroft smear test '' , he said .
class three , they said .
`` well '' -- i didn't -- i didn't ever want to see that woman again .
`` all right .
maybe it's nothing , maybe it's intraepithelial or in situ -- can't take any chances '' .
`` groggins tells me she's started badgering already , wants to get out .
i grimaced in distaste .
we'd been standing right outside miss bancroft's door and as i went to turn the knob to enter , i was surprised to find that the door was slightly ajar .
her eyes opened as soon as she heard me , though , and once again , i felt an inward shiver .
`` i just got through seeing one of you guys .
there was something almost insulting in her tone , but i disregarded it .
`` we'd like you to have a dilatation and curettage .
but we would like your permission to do -- that is , to go further if it proves necessary '' .
it was flat , definite .
actually , i rather doubt that we'll have to do this .
i was sure that was the difficulty -- she just didn't want to stay here , where she couldn't get to the liquor .
i looked at her in amazement .
mostly , it was fear , but this woman's voice didn't tremble and her hands were still on the coverlet .
i asked .
`` you shouldn't tell your little secrets outside of the patient's door '' , she said .
she went on , disregarding my protests .
let your pupils learn on someone else , doctor .
i stared at her , almost speechless .
even her voice had taken on a more cultivated tone .
a long , long way down .
`` you haven't got cancer '' , i said as strongly as i could .
and even if '' --
i gaped at her .
but there was that something , some echo in the way she spoke .
`` surprised , baby ? ?
but you haven't changed much , joe '' .
`` alice '' -- i stammered through dry lips .
`` alice '' , she echoed mockingly .
think i'm going to make you introduce a drunk as your wife ? ?
just let me outta here '' --
i'd found my voice .
she shrugged .
as for coming back here -- well , i'll tell you the truth , i didn't even know where i was when i came to .
the way she spoke , her flat acceptance of her alcoholic blackout , made me shudder .
`` i never asked you for any favors , joe '' , she went on , `` but i'm asking one now .
you doctors are all alike -- all you want is to cut up people and what's the good ? ?
i looked at the pathetic wreck of a woman before me .
what she'd said was true -- in all these years , she'd never asked for anything from me .
and gladdy would be safe ! !
she made me welcome .
the many little tricks she knew made her embrace the ultimate one -- the ever more fantastic pressures deeper in her body squeezed not me but the air i breathed into a nitrogen anesthetic .
i no longer knew how deep i was , somewhere under 230 feet , getting drunker , happier and more contented by the second .
only the dive itself had any meaning .
perhaps if i took off the aqua-lung i could swim better , love my woman better .
while a hazy part of my mind concentrated on swimming down , a clear part sorted over recent events , among them my only positive act in a long time .
it was no vacation , just me getting out after a bellyfull .
wild kicks never are , but i hoped to dig up a better frame of mind .
that first time was good and it stuck with me .
it was a saturday evening in april with a mist-like rain , and i was a little high on the good taste of life .
in less than an hour i had gotten a hotel , showered , shaved and was out on the champs elysees in a fresh uniform .
all the women were beautiful , and the men were equal to them ; ;
there were some sweet machines other than women : an old bugatti , a lean farina coachwork on an american chassis , a swallow , a type a40-ajk mercedes and lots more .
i had champagne at maxim's , then went into a cafe called the jour et nuit to ask the way to montmartre .
i met claire , which was better .
i stared .
she was blonde , and young , and nice and round in a tight white dress .
when she had drained the last of the bottle and paid her bill , she came directly to my table and said :
i feel another of terrible urgency .
`` madame '' , i said with noblesse oblige because of the `` handsome '' -- `` yeah '' .
she was a nymphomaniac , of course , the poor girl .
now it was nine years later , and it wasn't spring but winter when i returned .
i made the mistake of going to the jour et nuit .
i sat waiting for life to come along and sweep me up .
after a few hours , life hadn't showed , and i was crocked .
the next morning a little cognac made me feel better -- but what can you do in paris on sunday morning ? ?
all that day and monday i drank just enough to orbit but not make deep space .
elemental , but sex .
i was turning over the idea of a good debauchery when i dozed off .
my head was clear , my thinking sober and i was reconciled to this paris idea as a flop on top of all my others .
sometime earlier the weather had turned cold and it was snowing .
i walked around breathing the cold wine of the air until i found a park , and i sat down on a snowy bench where the light was dim and came from the sky .
i had on only a topcoat , but i wasn't cold .
pretty soon a woman came along carrying a folded umbrella as a walking stick .
suddenly i understood why she had the umbrella .
without it she would have been drab and limp .
it gave her the right to sit down beside me , back straight , one hand out on the handle .
i knew all about her .
i didn't much care if she were there or not .
( i didn't have on a hat .
hardly glancing at her , i smiled a bleak one which said , thanks , baby , but i'd rather be alone .
`` i'm not unhappy '' , i lied , staring at the snow .
`` is it a woman '' ? ?
she must have seen the ring on my left hand .
`` ah , monsieur , it is not my business to wager it .
this took me so funny i had to look at her .
i even snorted a chuckle .
she was even more miserable than me .
`` now isn't it better to smile '' ? ?
because i liked this sad person so much , i said , `` will you have a drink with me '' ? ?
anyway , i pulled a bottle of remy martin out of my topcoat , drew the cork , and passed it to her .
`` i'm sorry i haven't got a glass '' , i said .
she tilted up and drank , and then i drank .
i wasn't going to lug around a glass .
no child , this tart , she must have been thirty-five or even forty .
somehow she was attractive .
i liked her , and all at once i was glad she was there .
i suppose we were cold , but we didn't feel it .
then she said , `` allons '' , and we got up and went to my hotel without another word .
we undressed and made love with the comfortable acceptance i had once known with valery .
she had a funny little scar on her stomach , on the left side .
i felt wonderful , the absolute opposite of last night's melancholy .
i was hungry as a wolf , and my body felt lean and vital .
she looked good , with her short tousled hair and no make-up .
`` bon jour '' ! !
`` j'ai faim '' ! !
with a laugh she beat me to the bathroom .
she came out pink from a hot bath , and i gave her my robe .
`` the toothbrush monsieur '' , he said , presenting it .
`` what is this for '' ? ?
`` why , to brush your teeth '' .
i used yours '' .
i said with round eyes .
but i smelled the coffee , and thinking , what the hell , live dangerously , i decided i would scald my worries away .
we sent the waiter away and ate a tremendous amount of cold ham , hot hard-boiled eggs and hot garlic bread .
her name was suzanne , and mine stephen .
`` you are very tactful , do you know , stephen '' , she remarked .
i grunted , sipping .
i raised my eyes to look at her in the mirror .
`` i carry one in my purse .
to my immense relief , she changed the subject in the next sentence : `` shall we go to the louvre today '' ? ?
i said with enthusiasm at the idea .
i put aside my empty cup .
we were not rushed .
i asked , touching the scar on her stomach .
`` a bullet '' , she answered .
she understood sex anyway , and played at it well .
it was a nice place , not filled with smoke .
the sommelier brought the wine first , a magnum instead of the bottle i had ordered .
i fixed him with a steely eye and said , `` what's this for ? ?
i thought that was pretty humorous , but i didn't laugh .
she would not stop to read them in american express , as many were doing , sitting on benches or leaning against the walls , but pushed her way out into the street .
an enormous sky of the most delicate blue arched overhead .
pictures in old latin books returned to her : the appian way today , the colosseum , the arch of constantine .
moreover , nursing various stubblefields -- her aunt , then her mother , then her father -- through their lengthy illnesses ( everybody could tell you the stubblefields were always sick ) , theresa had had a chance to read quite a lot .
the very night after her father's funeral she had thought , though never admitted to a soul : now i can go .
so here it was , here was italy , anyway , and terribly noisy .
cars , taxis , buses , and motorscooters all went plunging at once down the narrow length of it or swerving perilously around a fountain .
glad to be alone , theresa climbed the splendid outdoor staircase that opened to her left .
something special was going on here just now -- the annual display of azalea plants .
it was not yet complete : workmen were unloading the potted plants from a truck and placing them in banked rows on the steps above .
marvelous , thought theresa , climbing in her portly , well-bred way , for she was someone who had learned that if you only move slowly enough you have time to notice everything .
halfway up the staircase she stopped and sat down .
theresa sat with her letters in her lap , breathing mediterranean air .
she loosened her tweed jacket and smoked a cigarette .
how could you be both at once ? ?
presently , she picked up the first of the letters .
of course , one of them would have to go and do this ! !
and how on earth did i ever get this letter anyway ? ?
her cousin emma carraway had written it , in her loose high old lady's script -- t's carefully crossed , but l's inclined to wobble like an old car on the downward slope .
no return address whatsoever .
, across the envelope , and now theresa had it , all as easily as if she had been the president of the republic or the pope .
cousin emma and cousin elec , brother and sister -- unmarried , devoted , aging -- had lived next door to the stubblefields in tuxapoka from time immemorial until the stubblefields had moved to montgomery fifteen years ago .
i'm supposed to care as much now as then , as much here as there , she realized , with a sigh .
she refolded the letter , replaced it in its envelope , and turned with relief to one from her brother george .
he was full of heavy family reminiscence .
his own children had suffered from the weakening of those values which he and theresa had always taken for granted , and as for his grandchildren ( he had one so far , still in diapers ) , he shuddered to think that the true meaning of character might never dawn on them at all .
poor george ! !
together with her mother , both of them tense with worry lest things should somehow go wrong .
could it just be , theresa wondered , that anne had understood only too well , and that george all along was extraordinary only in the degree to which he was dull ? ?
there they all did their uttermost to help cousin elec get a cramp out of his foot .
he held his long clenched foot in both hands , and this and his contorted face -- he was trying heroically not to cry out -- made him look like a large skinny old monkey .
`` can you think of anything to do '' ? ?
`` i hate to call the doctor but if this keeps up i'll just have to ! !
`` you might treat it like the hiccups '' , said papa .
`` i just hope this happens to you someday '' , said cousin elec , who was not at his best .
he was younger than theresa : she remembered looking down and seeing his great round eyes , while at the same time she was dimly aware that her mother and father were not unamused .
now , here they both were , still the same , george full of round-eyed woe , and cousin emma in despair .
`` of course ( george's letter continued ) , there are practical problems to be considered .
robbie and beryl tried their best to persuade her to come and stay with them , and anne and i have told her she's more than welcome here , but i think she feels that she might be an imposition , especially as long as our rosie is still in high school .
but there is more in this than meets the eye .
the wallpaper in the back bedroom is literally crumbling off .
) `` i hope if you have any ideas along these lines you will write me about them .
''
i'll start sneezing in a minute , sitting on these cold steps .
they wore shoes with pointed toes , odd to american eyes , and narrow trousers , and their hair looked unnaturally black and slick .
just then a man approached her with a tray of cheap cameos , parker fountain pens , rosaries , papal portraits .
`` no , no '' ! !
the man did not wish to leave .
carrozza rides in the park , the colosseum by moonlight , he specialized .
there she walked to the far left and leaned on a vacant section of banister , while the vendor picked himself another well-dressed american lady , carrying a camera and a handsome alligator bag , ascending the steps alone .
the lady with the alligator bag registered interest , doubt , then indignation ; ;
she cast about as though looking for a policeman : this really shouldn't be allowed ! !
theresa stubblefield , still holding the family letters in one hand , realized that her whole trip to europe was viewed in family circles as an interlude between cousin elec's death and `` doing something '' about cousin emma .
of course , it wasn't anne and george's fault that one family crisis seemed to follow another , and weren't they always emphasizing that they really didn't know what they would do without theresa ? ?
they would not care if all of europe were to sink into the ocean tomorrow .
it would have been exactly the same to them if i had read through all twenty-six volumes of elsie dinsmore .
then , with a motion so suddenly violent that she amazed herself , she tore them in two .
she became aware that two italian workmen , carrying a large azalea pot , were standing before her and wanted her to move so that they could begin arranging a new row of the display .
''
she indicated a spot a little distance away .
you can't keep that kind of information quiet in a town of only 4000-plus .
just as it has its susan dolan , though nobody'd ever bothered to tell me that .
they even talked about lucille down at the young christians' league where i spent a lot of time in bible classes and helping out with the office work for our foreign mission .
they were good-living religious people , and i can truthfully say i never heard them spread any gossip about anybody .
my folks and my faith protected me from things like that .
i asked him about it one night while we were sitting in his truck .
he gave me a straight , honest answer .
much as i love you -- well , a guy's a guy and lucille's willing to -- to come across .
i guess it was at that moment that i realized what i was up against in the person of lucille warren .
my love for johnnie was young and clean -- how could i possibly compete with a woman like that , who didn't hesitate to use her sex .
it was a vivid , sharp february morning that johnnie first made his appearance in my back yard , bringing some stuff dad had ordered .
he wasn't only different -- he was it .
his smile was quick , and his eyes held some promised secret that made my knees go limp .
i could hardly believe such good luck was mine .
i guess she was between affairs or something , but anyway , she had set her sights on johnnie , my johnnie .
but what could i do ? ?
neither was his wife .
but he wouldn't ask her -- he wasn't the kind of man who would force his wife to submit to him against her will .
he was too honorable to leave his wife penniless and leave those helpless children without their daddy .
but the only love i was giving him was the pure kind .
against my folks' wishes , we'd been seeing each other for short rides in the truck .
but by the time the first crackling of spring came around , we both knew we were hopelessly in love .
`` it's so crazy '' , i told him once .
somebody with no vices .
`` and you fall for a lumber jockey '' .
`` and smokes too much '' .
he examined his nails carefully .
`` don't you dare '' .
he still wasn't looking at me .
`` or i could visit lucille warren '' .
please ! !
he shrugged noncommittally .
and now he was seeing her .
i huddled miserably beside him in the truck .
johnnie and i had been innocent in our love , and that was the way i wanted to keep it .
but then he had said , `` all right , kid , if that's how you want it , that's how it'll be '' .
i had driven him into the arms of that scheming woman .
so one week later , i surrendered to him in the little motel on route 10 .
i was desperate to hold him , to give him whatever in this world he wanted or needed , and to keep him from the clutches of lucille warren .
i wanted him , with a terrifying fierceness .
`` love me , johnnie '' .
outside , in the summertime fields behind the motel , a thousand crickets serenaded us .
`` uh huh .
`` mmm '' .
it was as blissful and fulfilling a night as any bride ever experienced .
`` johnnie ? ?
not really '' .
`` stop worrying .
i took great comfort from his words , and smiled to myself in the darkness .
idiot's delight , i later discovered .
i had always resisted the passes made at me by other kids , and many times i had thought about my love for johnnie who , being thirty , brought a maturity to love that the kids around town could know nothing about .
i was practically a bride , after all .
of this , i had no doubt .
of course he would .
it wasn't johnnie's fault that he was hopelessly tied down to that frightful woman who did her best to make his life unbearable .
and if i could contribute to that , i'd do it .
no price is too high when true love is at stake .
i'd never even petted with a boy , and after i met johnnie he never touched me for the longest while , not until i all but threw myself at him .
what could a mere twelve years matter ? ?
and hadn't i rescued him from lucille warren ? ?
after all , lucille warren was a husband-stealer from way back .
it was only fitting that we seek out whatever joy our union might bring .
`` uh-huh .
`` always and always , johnnie '' ? ?
`` mmm '' .
a chill wind in the air and the narrow streets packed with snow .
i had mixed emotions about going .
but i had looked forward so much to being with this church group .
i wanted to just throw myself into the good works of this fine group .
the first meeting was held in faneuil hall , a great big place where we were able to meet members from all the other states .
one of them was a very friendly , lovely fellow named ronald , a boy about my age with slick , blond hair and dancing blue eyes .
i thought so , and he mentioned it , and alma said so too .
i assumed alma would get me there , but in the confusion of the meeting breaking up , we were separated .
`` hey , there , beautiful twin of mine '' , ronald said .
i couldn't help laughing with him .
`` alma , schmalma .
i went .
a couple of the girls were laughing rather shrilly and i realized they were drinking .
i hadn't liked it at first -- it was bitter and burning .
of course i enjoyed 'most anything if i did it with johnnie .
but that was only natural , i decided ; ;
`` i don't see alma anywhere '' , i said .
i drew back .
not for me '' .
`` no -- really '' .
`` okay .
the kitchen was jammed .
under normal circumstances , he had a certain bright-eyed all-american-boy charm , with great appeal for young ladies , old ladies , and dogs .
breakfast , he thought .
he looked around his little eden : bureau , bed , table , chair , two-burner stove .
`` you share a refrigerator '' , mrs. kirby had said , and somehow , at midnight , after the long drive from new york in pelting rain , that had sounded reasonable .
share bath , maybe -- but share refrigerator ? ?
and where was the thing ? ?
ah , yes -- his half of a refrigerator stood outside , on the `` curving veranda '' between unit number three and unit number four .
charlie downed his orange juice and one of the long , skinny green pills , his spirits as damp as the day .
`` take a full month '' , the doctor had said .
the red pills are a vitamin-and-iron compound .
the others will make you a little more comfortable until you get it licked .
charlie had accepted the diagnosis without comment .
but charlie knew what was wrong with him and knew , too , that there was no pill to cure it .
he had caught , too , like an ailment , a confirmed distrust of women .
from now on , his was going to be a man's world : the north woods , duck blinds at dawning , beer and poker and male secretaries .
in these damp circumstances , he was an odds-on bet to develop pneumonia .
`` three-day blow '' ! !
he had noticed before that the natives seemed to regard really filthy weather as a kind of pyhrric victory over the tourists .
`` i hope so '' , he said .
thought i'd bake it out in the sun '' .
she studied him briefly .
better get in out of the wet '' .
as for its being fine , day after tomorrow , he had the unhappy conviction that it would never be fine again , with vivian lost to him forever .
all charlie could look forward to was a yellow pill at noon , a salami sandwich for lunch , and a lonely old age -- if he lived that long .
he dozed , only to dream of vivian , and woke , only to crash into the night table , bruising his other shin .
his first thought was that mrs. kirby , in her mania for color , had dyed a cat and that cat had somehow managed to open the refrigerator door and climb in ; ;
he thought about it for a minute , could find no reasonable explanation for the presence of a sweater in the refrigerator , got the salami , bread , and a bermuda onion , and put the whole thing out of his mind .
`` would you mind wrapping your onion '' ? ?
`` the smell permeates everything '' ! !
the note paper was pink , too , and the handwriting small and dainty and utterly feminine .
he scrawled `` sorry '' across the bottom of the note and then , against his better judgment , added : `` don't you eat '' ? ?
but on the other hand , he didn't want her swiping his salami .
`` ugh '' .
but then , as he well knew , women are not guided by logic or common sense .
yes , take vivian .
now , if this were vivian next door to him and if , for some obscure female reason , she kept her clothes in the refrigerator , they would not be pink .
pink , vivian once had told him , was for baby girls , and grown-up girls who wore pink were subconsciously clinging to their infancy .
he mused aloud .
it was mrs. kirby , making her toilsome way along the veranda , laden with a clattery collection of mops , brushes , and pails .
`` oh , nothing .
`` oh , yes .
be a scorcher by afternoon '' .
i've got this cold '' .
she scrutinized him .
you want to watch out that you don't get burned to an ash , first sunny day .
that pale kind's the worst '' .
hardly an inviting description .
he could hear mrs. kirby now , warning her pale guest against sunburn .
`` he's that peaked kind '' .
charlie looked in the mirror .
he looked more closely .
clearly , two damp days with the bobbsey twins had done him no good .
when charlie came up from the beach for his four-o'clock pill , the whole establishment ( gaudy enough when seen through mist and fog ) looked like a floodlit modern painting -- great blocks of dizzy color , punctuated at regular intervals by the glaring white of five community refrigerators .
he could not imagine a flower's being brave enough to grow beside peony , larkspur , and the rest .
no wonder she was so pale , wearing all those cold clothes .
it gave him a good feeling .
thanks '' , was her answer the next day .
`` i've got this cold '' , he wrote .
`` it's none of my business '' , said the next note , `` but my aunt elsie used to take lemon juice and honey in hot water for a cold , and she lived to be ninety-six .
why don't you try that '' ? ?
he had to write very small to get it on the bottom of the scrap of paper .
`` gee , neither do i '' .
she didn't sound like a pale girl .
but then , redheads are often pale .
`` i guess that redhead next to me took your advice .
`` you won't , if you're looking for a redhead .
he spent that afternoon on the beach , looking for a pale , browny-haired girl in a pink bathing suit .
there were a sprinkling of daring bikinis and a preponderance of glorified tank suits .
he paid little attention to her because she was a redhead and because she was wearing white -- one of those bulky , turtle-neck sweaters .
and he saw them all as he walked up and down .
finally , in desperation , he opened the refrigerator , filched her hand lotion , and left a note .
hope you don't mind '' .
`` you're having a miserable time , aren't you ? ?
this was a very warm , sympathetic girl , he decided .
now vivian , for instance , was not too long on sympathy .
it was a tough world , and you had to be tough to hold your own .
suppose what's-his-name got a sunburn ? ?
she might peel him , once the worst of the agony was over .
correspondence passed back and forth .
the only thing , this lotion has glycerin in it , and that whitens the skin , so if you're so anxious to get a tan , you may not want to use it '' .
`` that mrs. kirby ! !
how's your cold '' ? ?
she didn't say you were puny .
what's puny '' ? ?
do you have anything to read while you're shut up ? ?
but the picture of tom swift is pretty sinister .
there was a crowd in the stands for a change and the sun was hot .
for a few innings the anniston team couldn't figure him out .
eddie lee , riverside's redheaded playing manager , ran after the ball but it rolled past him .
eddie caught up with the ball near the fence and threw it to phil .
third base '' ! !
phil spun around and made an accurate throw into mike deegan's hands on third base .
but the anniston boy had begun his slide too late .
`` you bastard '' ! !
he jumped to his feet and started to throw punches .
this brought in everybody from both sides , while the spectators stood up and added to the uproar .
the game was resumed .
when the inning was over he cursed the anniston catcher all the way into the dugout .
mike deegan was standing beside it , facing the field .
`` keep your eyes open , sonny '' ! !
`` you're in for trouble '' .
he simply turned to mike and smiled .
so help me god , i'll get him '' .
`` mind your own goddamn business '' , mike deegan said .
he stepped into the dugout , wondering why deegan was always looking for trouble .
when deegan smiled his eyes never fit in with his lips .
by the time the fielder got his hands on the ball deegan was rounding third base and heading for home .
but mike had no chance of being tagged .
all deegan had to do was slide , fall away , but instead , he rammed into the catcher .
only mike got to his feet .
the anniston players and their manager ran out on the field .
he did not move .
the riverside physician came down to look over the injured ballplayer .
mike deegan was sitting on the bench , watching .
phil rossoff , seated next to deegan , got up and moved to the other end of the bench .
he was followed by four of his men .
mike sat quietly watching the manager come nearer .
no one said a word .
his face was flushed .
`` that was a rotten thing to do '' .
`` stop it , will you ? ?
`` you didn't have to ram him '' .
the anniston manager looked at eddie lee .
he turned and went back across the field to his dugout .
the game started again and in the eighth inning mike deegan came up to bat .
the first ball the hefty pitcher threw came in for mike's head .
he arose slowly and brushed himself off .
`` hit the bum '' ! !
`` look at those bastards '' ! !
`` they're looking for trouble '' .
when he finally did he had to duck his head quickly away as the pitch came in .
he shouted to the pitcher .
`` i'll be waiting '' ! !
mike deegan pounded the rubber plate with the end of his bat .
the pitcher wound up and the ball came in straight for mike's head .
the pitcher tossed his glove away and came towards mike deegan .
riverside and anniston players rushed out on the field .
there was much shouting and screaming .
mike and the anniston pitcher were pulled away before they even came together .
after the game , phil was taking off his sweatshirt in the dressing room when mike deegan came in .
phil sighed and pulled the wet sweatshirt over his head .
the other players were undressing quietly .
mike went over to phil and stood over him .
`` i didn't think it was necessary '' .
now that's just fine ! !
mike placed both his hands on his hips .
mike had a good two inches over phil and phil had to look up into mike's face .
`` nobody else did , either '' .
`` i'm not trying to say anything '' .
and phil banged his locker door shut and spun around .
`` phil , come into my office '' , eddie said .
he sat down before eddie's desk .
`` you get your unconditional release as of today '' .
`` the best thing for you to do '' , eddie said , `` is go home .
phil had to clear his throat .
`` no '' , eddie said .
phil stood up .
this is the second time .
`` sit down , sit down '' , eddie said .
i am saying you're not a professional ballplayer '' .
`` now listen to me , phil .
you haven't got the heart for baseball '' .
suddenly his voice grew hard .
you're not in the big leagues , but if you can't give and take down here what the hell do you think it'll be like up there '' ? ?
`` now don't tell me what a good ball player you are .
but what you haven't got is the heart to back up that talent with .
you just haven't got the heart for pro-ball , and that's it '' .
my batting average ''
`` what difference does your batting average make ? ?
or even the way you run bases .
that's what i mean by no heart for the game .
deegan had no business ramming into that kid out there .
what the hell do you think baseball is ? ?
it's a way of life , goddamit ! !
he's wrong ! !
it's only his opinion .
he stood up slowly .
his lips felt glued together .
eddie nodded .
you'll get your pay in the morning '' .
phil shut the door behind him .
`` what happened '' ? ?
phil said : `` i got my release '' .
phil shrugged .
phil sighed .
`` i don't get it '' .
they were silent for a few moments .
phil took off one shoe and stared at it .
`` hell , plenty of guys get let out and come back later .
phil was very quiet .
`` why not try another club '' ? ?
what the hell right did eddie have saying a thing like that ? ?
`` talk to whitey jackson '' .
`` will you do it , phil '' ? ?
`` ask whitey for a job '' .
`` sure '' , he said .
frankie nodded .
`` atta boy '' .
`` don't worry '' , frankie said .
he needs outfielders bad '' .
`` that's the way to talk .
`` nothing '' , phil said .
his broad reading took him into certain by-ways of religion and the subject of religion began to fascinate him .
for his birthday , because richard had seen them in a store and asked for them , his mother bought him the zend-avesta and a little image of the indian god , acala .
he was enormously happy with her gift and smiled , then went to his room to read .
`` did you think there were two '' ? ?
`` you don't understand '' , richard said gloomily .
richard seldom spoke anyhow and he didn't speak to his parents about religion again .
although he still didn't speak to anyone , he grew fond of saying , `` the future lies in asia '' , when the opportunity arose , and when he graduated from high school his parents sent him to new york to give him a foundation , they said , for his life in asian studies .
he was awarded a fellowship to continue his studies in tokyo and he packed up his clothes , the biwa upon which he had been practicing and his image of acala , and left to spend a week at home before leaving the country .
his mother , who had seen little of him for four years , appeared worried about his sailing off by himself for an orient which , she herself having slight knowledge of it , had to be distrusted .
`` do you still have the book of the dead '' ? ?
`` yes '' , he lied to shorten the conversation , `` i still have it '' .
as for the book of the dead , it along with his other books on religion had been incarcerated in a furnace in the basement of the building in which he had lived in new york .
then he sped from the dark basement and returned to his room and cried .
during his second week at sea he brought the curious melody out of the instrument and suddenly wanted to force the biwa to remain at just that moment in its history when it had given him pleasure .
it was so dark that he didn't see it hit the water and the noisy rush of the ocean kept him from hearing it .
in tokyo richard took up a life similar to that which he had lived in new york , except that he had replaced his biwa with a friend .
he had nothing much to say to her but that he said anything seemed to please her and he accompanied her on some of her unusually searching tours of tokyo .
in time , he grew to depend upon her occasional company and she at length was able to encourage him to participate in more social activity .
at one such gathering charlotte announced , `` i was at ryusenji today .
no one had .
i was thoroughly startled '' .
three of the four persons present , all foreign students in tokyo , had been playing a game of judging popular japanese foods by the in and out system , an equation in which zen philosophy was used as the modifier .
sushi was out because it was pretentious .
richard had kept his eyes down throughout the game , the very sound of the chatter nearly painful to his ears .
`` did you watch him '' ? ?
`` i shouldn't have been able to do that '' .
`` for a minute , anyhow .
i've been there a number of times .
you've never been to ryusenji '' ? ?
`` there's a little place there called lovers mound dedicated to gompachi and komurasaki '' .
and the man who brought sweet potatoes into kanto is buried there , next to a beautiful seated statue of fudo .
this is the interesting part , richard '' , she had a bothersome habit of trying to pull him into the talking .
`` my god , it was cold today '' , said samuel burns .
`` and the water would be still colder '' , ceecee seemed to shiver at the thought of it .
it would kill one of us '' .
richard's dark eyes came up and seemed for the tiniest moment to reflect sharp light .
fudo , the god of wisdom , was also thought of as the japanese version of acala .
he found himself trying to remember something , but he couldn't decide even the nature of what it was he worked to recall .
perhaps he sensed some connection between the incident on the freighter and the ascetic at ryusenji , he was unable to put it together .
when he at last did go to his room , he couldn't sleep and instead paced up and down before his little image of acala , thinking first of charlotte's tale of the man at ryusenji , then of his biwa and the invisible pacific waters .
he was surprised by the sharp sensation he experienced as he approached the pool which charlotte had mentioned .
on the hillside above was caged what might have been an incarnation of fudo , or perhaps a demon .
the sensation he so overwhelmingly realized was one which told him he had been there before but he knew he had not , and could not recall any place he had visited to be likened to the limpid green water or the little fountain-falls or the green demon imprisoned beyond his reach .
into a little well before the temple he dropped a hundred-yen coin and then he had an urge to sound the bell before the temple , to take hold of the rope and crash it against the circle of bronze ; ;
instead , he walked around the temple and mounted still another flight of stairs and stood before the seated fudo at their head .
then the flames were gone , the stillness fell upon the severe black face and richard began to tremble violently .
he walked all the miles back to his room .
he stayed home , reading and refusing to think about his frightening experience at ryusenji .
the cold lingered , making sleep difficult that night , and he remained in bed still the next morning , now unable to keep from thinking about the inexplicable sight of burning metal , the wretched sound , the unbearable feeling of having been to a remote tokyo temple at some earlier time in his life .
i was thinking of the heat and of water that morning when i was plowing the stubble field far across the hill from the farm buildings .
the boy usually was sent out at about that time with the water , and he always dragged an old snow-fence lath or a stick along , to play with .
i almost ran over the snake before i could stop the tractor in time .
it lay half in the furrow and half out , and the front wheels had rolled nearly up to it when i put in the clutch .
the snake slid slowly and with great care from the new ridge the plow had made , into the furrow and did not go any further .
he was multi-colored and graceful and he lay in the furrow and moved his arched and tapered head only so slightly .
i pulled the throttle of the tractor in and out , hoping to frighten him with the noise , but the snake only flicked its black , forked tongue and faced the huge tractor wheel , without fright or concern .
my movement did frighten the snake and it raised its head and trailed delicately a couple of feet and stopped again , and its tongue was working very rapidly .
the colors were astonishing , clear and bright , and it was as if the body held a fire of its own , and the colors came through that transparent flesh and skin , vivid and alive and warm .
his flat and gracefully tapered head lifted as i looked at him and the black tongue slipped in and out of that solemn mouth .
you are much too beautiful .
i picked him up , and the length of him arched very carefully and gracefully and only a little wildly , and i could feel the coolness of that radiant , fire-colored body , like splendid ice , and i knew that he had eaten only recently because there were two whole and solid little lumps in the forepart of him , like fieldmice swallowed whole might make .
i lowered him so he would not fall and his body slid out onto the cool , newly-plowed earth , from between my pale hands .
the sharp , burning colors of his body stood brilliant and plain against the black soil , like a target .
it shone in its bright diamond color against the sun-burned stubble and the crumbled black clods of soil and against the paleness of myself .
i got on the tractor again and i had to watch the plow closely because the field was drawn across the long hillside and even in that good soil there was a danger of rocks .
the earth was a little heavy and i had to stop once and clean the plowshares because they were not scouring properly , and i did not look back towards the place until i had turned the corner and was plowing across the upper line of the large field , a long way from where i had stopped because of the snake .
the boy was there at the lower corner of the field , and he was in the plowed earth , stamping with ferocity and a kind of frenzied impatience .
i could see the hunched-up shoulders , the savage determination , the dance of his feet as he ground the snake with his heels , and the pirouette of his arms as he whipped at it with the stick .
i stopped the tractor and i shouted down to the boy , and i knew he could hear me , for the morning was clear and still , but he did not even hesitate in that brutal , murdering dance .
i felt myself tremble , thinking of the diamond light of that beauty i had held a few moments before , and i wanted to run down there and halt , if i could , that frenetic pirouette , catch the boy in the moment of his savagery , and save a glimmer , a remnant , of that which i remembered , but i knew it was already too late .
i was afraid to look for fear the evil might still be going on .
i felt the anger mount within me .
i knew the boy well .
he was a beautiful boy , really , with finely-spun blonde hair and a smooth and still effeminate face , and his eyelashes were long and dark and brushlike , and his eyes were blue .
he was my nephew , my brother's son , handsome and warm and newly-scrubbed , with happiness upon his face and his face resembled my brother's and mine as well .
i stopped the tractor and climbed down and the boy came eagerly up to me .
he asked , as he often did , and i had as often let him be on the tractor beside me .
the killing was already forgotten in that clear mind of his .
i pointed to the splintered , upright stake .
i asked .
`` i killed a snake ; ;
he tried to take my hand to show me .
`` snakes are ugly and bad '' .
didn't you see how beautiful it was '' ? ?
`` you saw the colors of it , didn't you ? ?
`` snakes are ugly and bad , and it might have bitten somebody , and they would have died '' .
this snake could not harm anything '' .
`` they are ugly and they eat chickens and i hate snakes '' .
`` you killed it because you wanted to kill it , for no other reason '' .
`` nobody likes snakes '' .
the boy skipped along beside me , and he was contented with what he had done .
there was a contorted ugliness now ; ;
the beautifully-tapered head , so delicate and so cool , had been flattened as if in a vise , and the forked tongue splayed out of the twisted , torn mouth .
i wrenched the stake out , that the boy had driven through it in the thickest part of its body , between the colored diamond crystals .
and then it moved a little more , and i knew the snake was dying , and i would have to kill it there .
i'm sorry , i thought to the snake , for you were beautiful .
the boy came around behind me , dragging the stake .
he said .
`` don't you see what you have done '' ? ?
`` don't you see the difference now '' ? ?
he came up and was going to push at it with his heavy shoes .
`` don't '' , i said .
he looked up at me , puzzled , and he swayed his head from side to side .
i wanted to slap his face , to wipe forever the insolence and brutal glee from his mouth , and i decided then , very suddenly , what i would do .
tax worries , production worries , personnel worries , and the letter from hanford college , his own alma mater , a real snapper .
yes , the boy's credentials were in order -- scholastic transcript , character references , picture , health record , successful college boards .
cady partlow lit his pipe with no comfort .
this was the letter which would or would not enroll his son , david , in hanford .
his son who did not know whether he wanted to be doctor , lawyer , merchant or chief .
maybe he should have kept in touch .
but he had been busy building a business , being a big man in his own town just as he had been a big man at hanford , class of 1935 .
it wouldn't help anyway .
pete's son was rejected .
cady looked at his own son's scholastic record with pride .
imagine his son being that good in science ! !
but then , he hadn't studied very hard .
he put down his pipe and started to type .
he stopped and looked at the picture of his son , the picture on his desk which had changed with the years from a laughing baby to a candidate for hanford college .
david had the same gray eyes , high cheekbones , dark hair and a certain rugged ugliness .
weight , 160 .
he turned back to the typewriter with a little more confidence .
his chief motivation for enrolling at hanford is the desire to '' --
he paced to the window and looked at the city he had helped to build .
that you have refused to drive him into the family business or push him into a profession so you can say at the club , `` of course david has known since he was twelve he wanted to be an engineer '' -- or a lawyer , or an editor ? ?
just give him time , give him a chance .
what a production to make of a letter commending your own son ! !
he told hanford his son wanted to go into the field of electronics .
he belonged to a social club , a civic group , little theater , swimming team , and had been president of the student forum as well as treasurer of the science club .
there , that did it .
he shoved the unsealed letter into his coat pocket .
after all , his wife had written most of his letters for him in those first lean days of partlow products .
half of it was natural , half was smith college .
a woman had it or she didn't .
she said what she meant and let it be .
he could take the advice or leave it .
`` you look like you just heard a real gasser , mr. partlow '' .
`` i was just thinking how things have changed .
be our guest ! !
now you have to be well rounded , firm in motivation and pre-packed with knowledge '' ! !
`` that's a fact , mr. partlow .
`` going to state '' ? ?
he's president of the rocket club here , you know .
real bright along those lines , you might say .
`` oh '' , said mr. partlow , `` that's fine , tom .
as he drove home through the thinning traffic , cady felt the unease growing .
they had all turned down his son .
so sorry .
so sorry .
so sorry .
but tonight his drink tasted like branch water and even his favorite meal of steak and tossed salad gave no surcease from the growing weight of the letter in his pocket .
he liked looking at anne .
he liked her blond hair and the sprinkle of freckles across her nose .
she always could sense the shag end of a woolly day .
`` no , i begged off .
`` can i have the car , dad '' ? ?
i know it is midweek , but it's only eight days before commencement .
david grinned .
cady partlow's head came up like that of the proverbial fire horse .
the car ? ?
dave ate two pieces of pie as he did everything else , slowly , methodically and with interest .
cady begged the question .
your acceptance will come through '' .
`` don't be too sure , dad .
anne said it wasn't surprising because charles was antisocial , a lone wolf , and completely one-sided .
dave kissed her lightly .
get my old man to bed early .
anne waited until the door had slammed and picked up the coffeepot .
cady trailed her with the coffee cups and settled into his favorite chair in the comfortable book-lined room .
`` wrong word , darling .
need any help '' ? ?
hanford college hasn't decided on dave's application yet .
here's what i wrote '' .
already he could feel anne's questioning eyes .
that was when half the school was down with flu '' .
`` and he wasn't really elected treasurer of the science club .
cady stuck his jaw out .
`` and the swimming team .
just missed the first '' .
`` anything else '' ? ?
`` i don't think you've been quite honest , cady .
david's interests .
he was mad about stars at the age of nine .
those aren't his interests now '' .
`` just say he likes swimming , tennis , chess and music '' .
he hasn't been to a symphony concert all season '' .
`` but he plays bass with chief crazy horse and his five colts '' ! !
even in that he never solos like jack on guitar or rich on sax .
`` yes , he's just there .
he likes to play bass because he doesn't have to solo .
don't worry , cady , he'll be back in the beethoven fold by next year '' .
`` all right .
anne laughed and cady felt the tension loosen its grip on the back of his neck .
`` but you know how hard it is to get a boy into a good college .
anne folded the worrisome document .
he hasn't used it now for several years .
cady felt the jolt as though he had stepped off the curb on his heel .
just what '' ? ?
why don't you ask him '' ? ?
`` i have talked to him , but you know i've never tried to push him into any profession .
anne picked up the towel she was hemming for the hospital guild .
but subconsciously you've wanted him to conform to your mold .
cady put the well-worn chip back on his shoulder .
he just hasn't developed them yet .
he never will , cady .
all your wishful thinking won't change that .
you can't run a war with ninety-nine generals and one private '' ! !
martin felt it was incredible that the situation had come to exist at all .
the pair of white cotton shorts ruled his life .
when he rose in the morning , the image was still there .
in his bachelor days , his bedroom had been strewn with clothes which his mother , or later the hotel maid , generally saw fit to put in order .
but it was fun those first days , kidding about the trail of garments he left littered across the rug .
half slyly he enjoyed seeing her stoop to lift the things .
the smooth curve of her neck , very white against hair which curled against it like petals .
so he sought her out , and spoke to her , and thought of his hand in her hair .
but , to put it bluntly , nothing snapped .
they married .
all martin thought he needed was time : to what better use could time be put ? ?
there was too little occasion beforehand for resistance , the brave strong delights of emotional clash and meeting .
but , at the start , his new life felt invigorating .
it was on the tenth day after the wedding ( how could it have been so soon ? ?
`` now , i'm not going to pick up those shorts '' ! !
`` i think you'll get tired of them there '' .
he smiled to himself , and decided not to mention them till dolores did .
for he had just remembered : tonight they were having their first guests .
he was wrong .
they gave the room a strange note of incongruity , like a mole on a beautiful face .
quietly he determined to foil her .
my nerves are as strong .
it rang .
martin was standing a few feet from the front door .
dolores stood motionless in the doorway .
martin turned his back .
bill's hat was deposited in the hall closet .
martin strained his ears .
then he caught just enough to know that the shorts were still there .
all evening anthea favored him with odd , coy looks .
for some reason , this ellipsis in the conversation spread until it swallowed up every other topic .
the brainards went home early .
as violently as possible .
on the contrary , it would only weaken his position if he fumed , while she stayed calm and adamant .
he shivered .
at once .
in his head was the echo of those titters with anthea .
he remembered his mother gossiping with her neighborhood women friends , lowering her voice to a penetrating hoarseness which might be trusted to carry to the head of the stairs , where he crouched listening .
she was talking about him that time , because he had done some bad thing , something she disliked , but `` afterwards martin said he was sorry .
it wasn't even true that he'd said he was sorry that time ; ;
but his mother told the story over and over , till her `` martin said he was sorry '' was as much a part of her as the shape of her thin , pallid ears .
let the best sex win .
if the situation had been bad , it now got worse .
angrily martin wished they had delayed the wedding and gone on a trip -- preferably one that lasted months -- instead of deciding not to postpone the date until he could get away .
these stray people nearly always insisted on dolores showing them around the apartment .
it was curious how the different visitors took this .
others asked .
to them all dolores told a lighthearted and witty tale .
while he waited in the living room .
they entered the bedroom , and dolores said nothing .
`` you were in a hurry , weren't you '' ? ?
dolores smiled ; ;
now martin heard himself give a snort of mock good nature .
never again did he enter into the ritual of showing the apartment .
but martin seldom felt the impulse to talk about anything .
dolores kept picking up any of his clothes ( except the fatal shorts ) which he left about , but he had been robbed of pleasure in scattering his possessions .
the shorts alone remained .
the sound of their amazement .
the most bizarre situation .
he had thought her exactly what he wanted .
pursuing his idea , he saw that it would be impossible to leave her now .
he would cut a supremely ridiculous figure .
day and night martin could not drag his mind from the dilemma he had made for himself .
alternately he had periods of hostile defeatism in which he determined sullenly , morosely , to live out his life in this fashion .
when the solution finally came to him , one night while he was in bed , he was so shaken by its simplicity that he could only wonder why it had not occurred to him before .
beside his shorts , he would place something of hers .
he felt that it would be a particular humiliation to dolores to pick up her own underwear which he had laid on the floor .
sooner or later , dolores would crack .
martin guessed that dolores would not be so eager to tell the next installment of her story .
she had used his rumpled shorts as the very image of his childishness , his lack of control , his general male looseness , while she remained cool , airy , and untouched , the charming teacher who disciplined an unruly body .
something in the back of his mind was aware that the magnificence of the plan lay in his faith , that the idea would work because he believed in it , since his courage and virility were involved , because it was truly his .
the next morning , while dolores was out of the room , he went to her bureau drawer , took out a pair of nylon lace pants , and tenderly dropped them next to his shorts .
in a surprisingly short time , dolores appeared .
slowly and deliberately she reached down and touched the lace with her fingers , then hesitated for about a second .
he saw that in a moment she had grasped all the implications of a plot which had been weeks in occurring to him .
she did not look at him , but he noticed that her face was flushed and her eyes unsteady .
well , martin thought , that'll save .
as he relaxed that day , martin realized how tense he had been these past weeks .
`` good old a-z '' , cap said .
as a prominent industrialist , you ought to be interested in his nibs' support group .
once it was , william thought .
a rush of memory swept him back , and he forgot cap .
simply enough , through the inadvertent agency of his brother-in-law .
freddy needed a job , having been detached from a rather dangerous career in real estate and skyscraper financing by gerry , and it was up to arthur willis to provide him with one .
shortly after , freddy had his usual proliferation of bold ideas .
he generally heard freddy's suggestions without interest , being absorbed by his own prospering concerns .
gerry began to aid freddy with her father , prodded , no doubt , by joan's open contempt for freddy and william's irritating competency .
she unquestionably assumed that the more he was entwined with freddy , the more likely he was to reward freddy richly upon his death .
they acquired another electronics factory , a specialized ceramics company , an organization that built -- very experimentally -- high-speed research calculators .
feeling his power , freddy looked for additional worlds to conquer .
the allstates auto company , a medium-sized firm which manufactured four-wheel-drive vehicles and other off-road equipment , had recently constructed an over-large , modern plant in a burst of misguided optimism .
with herberet's blessing , he was convinced that allstates' wisconsin folly would be ideal for conversion to airplane sub-assembly , tanks , missiles or ordnance of some kind .
although not much desiring the account , he had been appointed advertising head of zenith .
and if he wasn't entirely committed to what he did , he was at least fascinated by the chance of wider opportunities .
in the end , he said : `` i'm not enchanted by the proposition , sir .
it's his expert opinion that the plant isn't well suited to what you have in mind .
besides that , i'm acquainted more or less with the defense hardware situation through my contacts in the air force .
missiles have thrown everything up for grabs , and nobody seems to be sure where we go from here .
this means the aircraft companies are going to tear into the government market , looking for anything they can get and making the competition tough .
can't you stay with what you have and wait till the dust settles '' ? ?
`` well '' , he said , `` there is freddy , you know .
freddy is deeply committed to our plans already .
i don't like to exhibit the deadly dampening effect of an elderly man's caution '' .
i wish you wouldn't tell freddy i'm lukewarm ; ;
if we don't take care , the sisters will be entering the fray on opposite sides , brandishing their cudgels '' .
willis laughed .
let me think about it .
not to william's surprise , freddy , adam and hamilton richert prevailed ; ;
zenith absorbed allstates , stock transfers were arranged , and freddy became president of the hyphenated combination .
he forgot about a-z till , unhappily , he and hamrick were proved correct .
adam , beset by changing defense conditions and the open secret that he was part of the new corporation , couldn't deliver from his end .
stock willis held in abundance fell sharply in value .
once more willis summoned william .
freddy's solution doesn't appeal to me .
will you see if you can help me '' ? ?
his recent experience in motor car advertising , a love for cars of themselves , the existence of a-z's useless wisconsin set-up , exposure to exciting conceptions of hamrick's that nobody would buy , and the coincidental recent failure of a respected but out-dated small-car manufacturer called ticonderoga motors had given him an idea of such dimensions he was almost afraid to broach it .
he thought the financing , the advertising , the production of new models , the founding of a nationwide chain of dealerships was simply too difficult .
if a-z could buy ticonderoga cheaply and use their presses and dies and other equipment , if william could hit precisely the right promotion note , if the money hurdle was not insurmountable .
taking hamrick with him , william went to mr. willis .
`` your alternative is breathtaking '' , he said , `` and , i'm frank in saying , a bit mad .
well , i can't resolve this myself .
are you willing to run the gantlet ? ?
`` we'll be in there swinging '' , william said , `` but in a way , sir , you've got to decide it yourself .
if they follow anyone , it'll have to be you '' .
`` i should explain : there's more here for me than advocating my little dream , there's you .
i hate that .
forgive the hearts and flowers theme '' .
`` thank you '' .
from shock and incredulity , most of the listeners went on to open resistance and animosity .
move over , general motors '' .
`` you're leading dad down the garden path '' .
william said .
`` nor crazy relatives .
can't we put an end to this , arthur '' ? ?
`` i'm an advertising hustler , i admit , but i have to get hot once in a larger sphere .
their cars weren't small enough , they didn't have the power , they were old-fashioned .
we've arrived at an age for romance and snobbery .
look what those little european jobs are doing .
ticonderoga folded a few minutes too soon , before the tide changed , still honest and stupid -- and the network of dealers the company had is around waiting to be signed up again -- waiting for us , ready-made .
why not come down smartly in the world , in a chic fashion , with an allstates-zenith '' ? ?
financing emerged as the main obstacle .
`` nobody will underwrite it , i'm telling you '' , freddy said .
`` there's plenty of risk money '' , ham richert added , `` but not for anything this risky '' .
`` we'll try to swing the deal on that basis .
nothing has been lost .
why won't you give me a chance '' ? ?
heads instinctively turned in willis' direction .
`` i feel i must answer the question '' , he said , `` since the onus later , if any , should fall on me -- i don't relish recriminations spread broadcast outside my family .
good luck to you '' .
sweat started out on william's forehead , whether from relief or disquietude he could not tell .
nobody else showed pleasure .
`` hello , boss '' , he said , and grinned .
`` i'm afraid not '' .
for it seems that barco , fancying himself a ladies' man ( and why not , after seven marriages ? ?
mills secured barco's photograph from the gentleman in charge , rushed to the hollywood police station to report the theft , and less than five minutes later , detectives with his picture in hand were on the trail of cal barco .
finally , at ye olde gasse filling station on avocado avenue , they learned that their man , having paused to get oil for his car , had asked about the route to san diego .
at the moment , barco's back was to the road so he didn't see the detectives close in on his convertible which , in their quest for the stolen lap rug , they proceeded to search .
the detectives placed barco under arrest and , without informing him of the nature of the charge , took him back to hollywood for questioning .
during the return trip , barco kept muttering to himself in meaningless phrases , such as : `` they're under sand dunes they're better off , i tell you i saved their souls '' .
however while in his cell awaiting trial for theft , barco , in a fit of apprehension , made an attempt to take his own life .
the jail authorities -- attaching no particular significance to the episode -- offered barco whisky to revive him ; ;
then it was that district attorney welch entered the case .
it was reported to welch's office that a thief in the city jail had attempted suicide .
no one knew .
the suicide attempt looked to him like an opportunity to put his theory to the test .
`` barco , we've got the goods on you ! !
at first barco was evasive and shifty .
by the time barco reached the count of three , the situation seemed to welch almost too good to be true .
welch summoned jail officials to barco's cell .
barco was clearly a `` nut '' .
`` that worm a murderer ? ?
then , for the first time since his arrest , a glint of spirit lit barco's eyes .
he stiffened and rose to his feet .
`` is that so '' ? ?
`` well , for ten years i've been murdering women .
''
for indeed it seemed incredible that anyone could go on committing murder for ten years and not get caught at it , even in hollywood .
barco , his state of apprehension gone , never to return , had assumed a matter-of-factness which remained his principal attitude from that time on .
stopping the cars at a fork in the road , he got out , paced off a certain distance to a spot between two shrub-covered sand hills , and indicated a location .
nothing was found .
the police captain chortled .
with greater precision he again paced off a location , this time a little more to the left .
welch was on edge .
`` there's something here '' ! !
joking stopped and everyone gathered around .
although it was a mere fragment of the victim's remains , it was enough .
his elation grew as barco's seven disclosures brought to light one reward after another .
it went to his head , and his ambition increased .
every new scandal which would provide more `` copy '' for marshall's pen would thus mean more publicity for welch .
once there , the d.a. with devilish cleverness would provide marshall with headlines : `` viola's multiple romances '' `` viola lake an addict '' `` downfall of another film idol '' ! !
i studied welch closely as the trial progressed for any hint which might give me a lead as to how he might be thwarted .
he was bitter and resentful toward her , personally resentful .
i did not rest until i had tracked the mystery down .
one day over a year before , there had been a cocktail party in an apartment of a downtown hotel .
she arrived late and as she entered the party , noted that gentlemen seemed to be in the majority ; ;
naturally , viola had no wish to remain , but she felt she couldn't leave so soon after her arrival , in all politeness to her host .
while projecting from beneath the couch were a pair of feet which , as fate would have it , belonged to district attorney welch .
a little later the district attorney woke up , emerged from under the couch , looked at his watch , and realized he had an engagement that very hour to address a meeting of the culture forum on `` the civic spirit of the southland '' , in the byzantine room of the hotel where his wife , as president of the forum , was to preside .
then , noting neither the absence of his footwear nor the presence of the rosebuds , he made his way to the byzantine room and , with his usual dignity , mounted the rostrum .
the incident , aside from reflecting on welch's political career , had all but wrecked his home life .
and here it was ! !
during these first days of the trial i didn't have as much time to commiserate with viola as i should have liked .
we couldn't be seen together , for the tongue of scandal was ever ready to link our names , and the tongue of scandal finds but one thing to say of the association of a man with a girl , no matter how innocent .
now the czarship had not affected my own sense of social values , but mother had attained a reflected glory through it , which had opened the doors of los angeles-pasadena society to her .
i hated being dragged into the salons of these aristocrats .
in fact , it was not until the king of spain had visited at pickfair that mary and doug were beckoned to cross the sacred barriers which separate los angeles and pasadena from the hoi-polloi .
but at long last came a time when i broke away from mother and her society `` chi-chi '' in order to spend a cosy evening with viola and her chaperon at her home .
when i arrived at viola's i was shown , to my surprise , into the kitchen .
i sat and watched proceedings .
i realized that hamlet was faced with an entirely different problem , but his agony could have been no greater .
i was saved from making the decision as the phone rang , and the girls were upon me instantly .
no matter if your children are at the movies , in school , visiting their grandmother , or on a field trip in some distant city , they will be upon you magically within seconds after you pick up the phone .
louise climbed onto a stool and clutched the hand with which i was trying to hold the phone , claiming my immediate attention on grounds of extreme emergency .
i promised to illustrate the lecture , if they so much as breathed till after the call was completed .
soon we were deep in a conversation that was interrupted many times by little things like jennie's holding her breath and pretending to black out , miranda's dumping the contents of the sugar bowl on the table , and various screeches , thuds , and giggles .
i discovered that the girls had shrewdly vacated the kitchen , and were playing quietly in the living room .
resolving to get something done , i started in on the dishes .
i'm not saying it right .
they looked so formidable , however , so demanding , that i found myself staring at them in dismay and starting to woolgather again , this time about francesca and her husband .
francesca and herbert were among the few people we knew in catatonia .
they had been kind to us and we were indebted to them for one or two pleasant dinners , and for information as to where to shop , which dentist , doctor , plumber , and sitter to call ( not that there was much of a choice , since catatonia was just a village ; ;
they were `` personalities '' .
fran and he had met about two years after she had arrived in manhattan from nebraska , or was it wyoming ? ?
she patronized greenwich village artists for awhile , then put some money into a broadway show which was successful ( terrible , but successful ) .
they were married at a lavish ceremony which was duly recorded in parvenu and all other magazines and newspapers , and then they honeymooned in bermuda .
bermuda was not in style that year .
everyone was very high on rome that year .
they had chosen catatonia because of its reputation for excellent schools , beaches , and abundance of names .
i admired their easy way of doing things but i couldn't escape an uneasiness at their way of always doing the right things .
it had a gourmet's corner ( instead of a kitchen ) , a breakfast room , a luncheon room , a dining room , a sitting room , a room for standing up , a party room , dressing rooms for everybody , even a room for mud .
their two boys were `` well adjusted '' and , like their parents , always did the right thing at the right time and damn the consequences .
fran flaunted her independence by rebelling against the catatonia uniform of bermuda shorts and knee-length socks by wearing bermuda shorts and knee-length socks in colors ; ;
sometimes she even wore the uniform in solid , unrelieved black , and with her blonde hair cut so closely , wearing this uniform , she strongly resembled a member of the ss. .
sometimes , though , they did not seem quite human .
practically the only enthusiasm they showed was when they were discussing `` names '' ; ;
you should hear the reverence in fran's voice when she said `` baccarat '' or `` steuben '' or `` madame alexander '' .
i wouldn't have wasted time puzzling over this couple were it not for my fear that all the other inhabitants of catatonia were equally unreal .
besides francesca , there was blanche .
yes , blanche was very , very sweet -- being in her company was like being drowned in warm , melted marshmallows .
anyone knows how a real , red-blooded woman would react to such a catastrophe ! !
but dear me , no ; ;
after five minutes with blanche , one might welcome the astringency of grazie , who was a sort of gwen cafritz to francesca's perle mesta .
they were inseparable , not because they were fond of each other , but because they wanted to keep an eye on each other , as they were keen rivals for social leadership .
she it was who had looked to see if i was wearing shoes upon learning that i couldn't drive .
she lived in an ultra-modern house whose decoration , appointments , paint , and even pets were chosen to complement her coloring ; ;
her uniform was of rich , raw silk , in a shade which matched her hair , skin , housepaint , and cats , and since she was so thin as to be almost shapeless , she rather resembled a frozen fish stick .
i couldn't tell one from the other .
one or two were writers of books ; ;
each had developed a hair-trigger chuckle and the habit of saying `` zounds '' ! !
i never thought i'd live to hear people chuckle and say `` zounds '' ! !
i wouldn't have missed it for anything .
these boys acknowledged an introduction to anybody by gently pressing one of his hands in both of theirs , while they gazed , misty-eyed with care , into the eyes of the person they were meeting .
they were always leaping to light cigarettes , open car doors , fill plates or glasses , and i mistrusted the whole lot of them to the same degree that i mistrusted bake shops that called themselves `` sanitary bake shops '' .
pioneers ! !
pioneers who looked like off-duty gardeners even at parent-teacher conferences and who never called the school principal `` mister '' .
people who would give their teeth for a chance to get on `` person to person '' ; ;
who were more ingratiating than gracious , more personalities than persons .
well , not discussed him exactly , but said , `` kafka '' ! !
they were , i felt , people invariably trying to prove not who , but what they were , and trying to determine what , not who , others were .
i made plans for the afternoon -- doing the breakfast and luncheon dishes all at once , making the beds , and then maybe painting the kitchen .
`` bananas '' ! !
`` they're not dessert ! !
they're just something you're supposed to put on cereal for breakfast '' .
( sometimes i think you need only one rule for cooking : if you can't put garlic in it , put chocolate in it .
the cake was received in a stunned silence that was evidence in itself of the dearth of taste thrills mama had been providing .
i'm a stranger in paradise '' .
how dared they demand to `` snoop '' in private financial records , disbursements , confidential contracts and agreements ? ?
'' my impassioned plea for civil rights created a landslide of correspondence and one sponsor even asked me to consider replacing the eddie cantor comedy hour on a permanent basis .
the savage barbarian hordes of red russian communism descended on the athens that was mighty metronome , sacking and despoiling with their bolshevistic battle cry of `` soak the rich ' ! !
i was also publicly reprimanded , dragged through the mud by the radical press and made a figure of fun by such leftist publications as the new republic , the new yorker , time and the christian science monitor .
the litigation was costly and seemingly endless .
presidential coercion had succeeded not only in poisoning the courtiers , `` toadies '' and sycophants of the `` bench '' against me , but it had been so far-reaching as to discourage any lawyer in the nation from representing me ! !
but the supreme court wouldn't even hear my case ! !
again , my name was on all the front pages .
as charles evans hughes said , `` miss poitrine's limitations as an actress are exceeded only by her logic as a litigant '' .
henry ford spoke of me as `` utterly astounding '' .
not only were the court costs prohibitive , but i was subjected to crippling fines , in addition to usurious interest on the unpaid `` debts '' which the government claimed that metronome and i owed -- a severe financial blow .
my enemies were only too anxious to level against me such charges as `` reactionary '' , `` robber baroness '' , and even `` traitor '' ! !
i point now with pride to the fact that , long ere the committee on un-american activities , the minute women , the economic council and other such notable `` watchdog '' organizations were so much as heard of , i was hollywood's leading bulwark against communism , fighting single-handedly `` creeping socialism '' against such insuperable odds as the fascio-communist troops of the nra , pwa , wpa , ccc and an army of more than twenty-two million mercenaries whom f.d.r. employed secretly , through the transparent ruse of regular `` relief '' checks .
could it do otherwise ? ?
such sweeping distractions are hardly conducive to `` oscar '' winning performances .
having ( through my unflagging effort and devotion ) achieved stardom , a fortune and a world-renowned wife at an age when most young men are casting their first vote , letch proceeded to neglect them all .
each time letch `` went up '' in his `` lines '' , i was the one to be patient , helpful and apologetic while he indulged in outbursts of temperament , profanity and abuse , blaming others , going into `` sulks '' and , on more occasions than i care to count , storming off the `` set '' for the rest of the day .
it was i who paid for our little home , the food , the liquor , the servants -- even letch's bills at his tailor and the los angeles athletic club .
( but that is another story .
more than once i was confronted by professional gamblers , `` bookies '' , loan `` sharks '' , gangsters , `` thugs '' and `` finger men '' -- people of a class i did not even know existed -- to repay my husband's staggering losses , `` or else '' i shuddered to think that someone so dear to me could even associate with such a sinister milieu .
having the deepest of maternal instincts , my heart fairly bled when i thought of the darling pink and white `` bundles from heaven '' i would have proudly given my husband .
letch had made it abundantly clear that he did not care for the company of my own precious daughter .
her presence only made letch more distant and irritable and , in the hurry of buying chateau belletch , i had neglected to consider a room for baby-dear , so there was no place to put her , anyhow .
it almost always works out for the best .
yet i adored this man , letch feeley , why , i cannot say .
the times i can recall when i was publicly humiliated by him -- lovely dinner parties in our trianon suite where the collation was postponed and postponed and postponed , only to be served dry and overcooked at a table where the host's chair was vacant ; ;
a lovely epiphany party at errol flynn's , on which sacred occasion letch stole away with an unknown `` starlet '' , leaving me `` high and dry '' to get home as best i could .
as mrs. letch feeley , was it any wonder that i , once the social arbiter of filmdom , was excluded from the smart entertainments given by the astaires , the coopers , the gables , the colmans , the rathbones , the taylors , the thalbergs and such devout , closely knit families as the barrymores and the crosbys ? ?
between 1935 and 1939 letch and i made ten films together , each less successful , both artistically and commercially , than the one before it .
as i was playing mother cabrini , the picture was actually `` all mine '' , with nearly every scene built around me .
and did he appreciate my efforts on his behalf ? ?
did he show the rest of the cast -- numbering four thousand -- the consideration of arriving at the studio punctually -- or even at all ? ?
the `` shooting '' went on for eight months ! !
whenever he deigned to appear at the studio he was `` hung over '' , uncooperative , rude and insulting .
by the time the film was released we were three million dollars over-spent , war was imminent and the public apparently had forgotten all about mother cabrini .
only george santayana seemed to understand and appreciate the film when he wrote : `` miss poitrine has perpetrated the most eloquent argument for the protestant faith yet unleashed by hollywood '' .
in a rare fit of anger and spite , i `` farmed out '' my own husband to a small and most undistinguished studio to make one picture as a form of punishment .
) the film was called the diet of worms , which i felt was just what letch deserved .
it was a disaster ! !
he was laughed off the screen .
it was a `` potboiler '' made on a `` shoestring '' and not the sort of film i like , as all i had to do was look blank and scream a great deal .
( i watched it on television late one night last week and it `` stands up '' remarkably well , even twenty years later .
letch had returned from his debacle unrepentant and more badly behaved than before .
`` if i could only think of something at the studio , near me , to absorb his boundless energy '' , i said .
`` bookies , booze and babes '' , momma said bluntly .
`` i can't turn the studio into a gambling hell or a saloon '' , i said .
it wasn't his fault that these things were so .
as a result , life had become a kind of continuous make-ready .
then , at last , his day would fall into an ordered pattern and he would be free to read , or garden or just wander through the woods in the late afternoon , accompanied by his dogs .
he had almost forgotten them , although they had played such an important part in his early dreams .
dogs did something to one's ego .
regardless of how much of a slob you knew yourself to be , you could be certain they would never find out -- and even if they did it would make no difference .
what in the world were you going to do with a lot of dogs when you left for town on monday afternoons ? ?
why in the world couldn't he live in one place the way everyone else seemed to ? ?
he would wake up in the middle of the night and fret about it .
was it possible that as people grow older the nature of time changed ? ?
or was the answer less metaphysical ? ?
did it take a man of sixty-five longer to write a letter , shave , clean out a barn , read a newspaper , than a man of thirty ? ?
it might be that certain people were born with a compulsion to complicate their lives , while others could live blissfully motionless almost indefinitely , like lizards in the sun , too indolent to blink their eyes .
and then again perhaps the reason why he couldn't find time to do any of the things he had planned to do after retirement : reading , roaming , gardening , lying on his back and watching the clouds go by , was because he didn't want to do them .
they could be done or left undone and nobody really gave a damn .
this habit had become so fixed over the years that it seemed futile to do anything for which no one was waiting .
it was five minutes after four .
he turned over impatiently and pulled the sheet over his head against the treacherous encroachment of the dawn .
thus committed , action might follow .
he also bought a huge square of pegboard for hanging up his tools , and lumber for his workbench , sandpaper and glue and assorted nails , levels and t squares and plumb lines and several gadgets that he had no idea how to use or what they were for .
`` that'll get you started .
add things as you find you need 'em '' .
after all , if you were going to set up a workshop you had to have the proper equipment and that was that .
he was glad .
he had made such a fuss about buying that second car that he knew he was vulnerable .
that was where the pegboard would go on which he would hang his hand tools .
the old nightmare which had caused him so many wakeful hours came charging in on him once more , only this time he couldn't pacify it with a sleeping pill and send it away .
how did one attach anything to a stone wall , for that matter ? ?
he sat down on an old box and focused on the problem .
but then , when you stuck things into the holes , why didn't they come right out again ? ?
he turned his attention to the workbench .
a workbench had a heavy top and sturdy legs , but how did you attach sturdy legs to a heavy top so that the whole thing didn't wobble like a newborn calf and ultimately collapse when you leaned on it ? ?
they lay on the cellar floor in a disorderly pile .
how could anyone know what to do with an assortment like that ? ?
then at least he would have a place to hang his tools and something to work on .
he went upstairs to phone crumb .
mr. crumb was laid up with a bad cold .
the only trouble was that he himself was tied up on the school job .
no , he didn't know of any handyman-carpenter .
carpenters all wanted steady work and at the moment every mother's son for twenty miles around that could hammer nails for twenty-five dollars a day was working on the school job .
nobody liked to hire him because you never could tell when he was going to be taken drunk .
if he was sober , which was doubtful , he'd have him get in touch with mr. crombie .
he said he was the lonely type and working in a cellar you saw funny things coming out of the cracks in the wall if they wasn't nobody with you .
at the same time he watched carefully to see how one attached pegboards to stone walls , but mr. blatz was usually standing in his line of vision and it all seemed so simple that he didn't like to disclose his ignorance .
mr. blatz agreed that this would be pretty .
`` now '' , he said , `` we got to put in some outlets for them power tools ; ;
it all did look very efficient and shipshape .
`` by the way '' , said mr. blatz , packing his tools into a battered carrier , `` them power tools needs extra voltage .
before you use 'em the light company's got to run in a heavy line and you'll need a new fuse box for the extra circuits .
instead of being depressed by this news , mr. crombie was actually relieved .
he followed mr. blatz up the cellar stairs .
mr. blatz sat down in the only unoccupied kitchen chair .
he oughta be able to build a new house with all them contraptions '' .
`` i was just sayin' to him that i'm all ready now for anything else you want done '' .
`` oh , that's wonderful '' , cried mrs. crombie .
doors that won't open , and doors that won't close and shelves and broken -- ''
`` those are the things i can do , now that i'm set up '' .
`` we won't live long enough if i wait for you , besides which you don't need to worry -- there'll be plenty more '' .
mr. blatz was already taking measurements for a shelf above the kitchen sink .
nothing in english has been ridiculed as much as the ambiguous use of words , unless it be the ambiguous use of sentences .
you explain english by greek '' .
and a witty american journalist remarked over a century ago what is even more true today , `` many a writer seems to think he is never profound except when he can't understand his own meaning '' .
in common parlance they would be described as misses -- misinterpreters , misunderstanders , misdirectors and kindred misdeeds .
`` did you or did you not say what i said you said , because jane said you never said what i said '' ? ?
such ambiguous exercises compound confusion by making it worse compounded , and they are sometimes expanded until the cream of the jest sours .
`` i'm terribly upset '' , she told a girl-friend .
evidently bill was another of those men who simply don't understand women .
`` mr. jones , you may recall that we printed last week your denial of having retracted the contradiction of your original statement .
questions like this , framed in verbal fog , are perhaps the only kind that have ever stumped an experienced politician .
similarly , when a reporter once questioned lincoln in cryptic fashion , lincoln refused to make any further statement .
the obscurity of politicians may not always be as innocent as it looks .
`` good '' ! !
`` it took me five hours to write it that way '' .
this creates an amusing effect because its position in a sentence seems to make it apply to the wrong word .
now can you tell me who was drunk -- the man , his wife , or me '' ? ?
`` there's a man outside with a wooden leg named smith '' .
another stock vaudeville gag ran : `` mother is home sick in bed with the doctor '' .
`` do you see that pretty girl standing next to the car with slacks on '' ? ?
in recent years gagwriters have discovered this brand of blunder and thus the misplaced modifier has acquired a new habitat in the gagline .
journalism supplies us with an endless run of such slips .
classified ads are also chockfull of misrelated constructions .
view takes in five counties , two bedrooms '' .
`` officials meet on rubbish .
son and daughter of local couple married '' .
a weekly newspaper reported a local romance : `` and the couple were married last saturday , thus ending a friendship which began in their schooldays '' .
then there was the caterer's ad which read : `` are you getting married or having an affair ? ?
the newspaper too is the favorite habitat of the anatomical .
samples : he walked in upon her invitation .
he kissed her back .
in news items a man is less often shot in the body or head than in the suburbs .
such items recall the california journalist who reported an accident involving a movie star : `` the area in which miss n -- was injured is spectacularly scenic '' .
when a witness at court was asked if he had been kicked in the ensuing rumpus , he replied , `` no , it was in the stomach '' .
apart from journalese and vaudeville gags , the anatomical is also found in jocular literature .
her first day at work she was puzzled by an entry in the doctor's notes on an emergency case .
after a moment of thought , her mind cleared and , in the interest of clarity , she typed into the record : `` shot in the woods '' .
at the home of a gourmet the new maid was instructed in the fine points of serving .
the maid demurred .
but since the gourmet insisted that it is done that way at the most fashionable dinners , the girl reluctantly agreed .
another specimen of such double-entendre is illustrated by a woman in a department store .
the puzzled saleslady inquired , `` how large is your house , madam '' ? ?
when a customer asked for alligator shoes , she said , `` what size is your alligator '' ? ?
one species is restricted to statements which are neither explicit nor precise regarding a particular person , place , time or thing .
`` oh , i'm so delighted to meet you '' , she gushed .
this baffling lack of distinct details recalls the secretary whose employer was leaving the office and told her what to answer if anyone called in his absence .
the girl nodded understandingly .
an old-fashioned mother said to her modern daughter , `` you must have gotten in quite late last night , dear .
the daughter replied , `` oh , i had dinner with -- well , you don't know him but he's awfully nice -- and we went to a couple of places -- i don't suppose you've heard of them -- and we finished up at a cute little night club -- i forget the name of it .
her woolly-minded parent agreed .
`` it's only that i like to know where you go '' .
`` dearly beloved '' , he preached , `` unless you repent of your sins in a measure , and become converted to a degree , you will , i regret to say , be damned to a more or less extent '' .
and yet it is not .
indefinite reference also carries double-meaning where an allusion to one person or thing seems to refer to another .
this is not unlike the order received by the sergeant of an army motor pool : `` four trucks to fort mason gym , 7:30 tonight , for hauling girls to dance .
a politician was approached by a man seeking the office of a minor public official who had just died .
he asked .
the manager of a movie theater received a telephone call from a woman who was equally indefinite .
she inquired .
`` who's in it '' ? ?
`` i am '' , he said .
`` oh '' , said the woman , `` i've seen that picture already '' .
when a question contains two verbs , the response does not make clear which of them is being answered .
finally he asked , `` do you object to petting '' ? ?
he thought a moment , then inquired , `` you mean petted '' ? ?
replies to requests for character reference are notorious for their evasive double-entendre .
another less ambiguous case read as follows : `` the bearer of this letter has served me for two years to his complete satisfaction .
in the comedy of indefinite reference , it-wit occupies a prominent place because of its frequent occurrence .
two friends were talking .
the speaker referred to the whiskey but his friend thought he meant the cold .
an excited woman was making an emergency call over the phone : `` doctor , please come over right away .
i called the other afternoon on my old friend , graves moreland , the anglo-american literary critic -- his mother was born in ohio -- who lives alone in a fairy-tale cottage on the upson downs , raising hell and peacocks , the former only when the venerable gentleman becomes an angry old man about the state of literature or something else that is dwindling and diminishing , such as human stature , hope , and humor .
after gagarin became the greatest man in the world , for a nation that does not believe in the cult of personality or in careerism , moreland wrote me a letter in which he said : `` i am not interested in how long a bee can live in a vacuum , or how far it can fly .
`` i have come to talk with you about the future of humor and comedy '' , i told him , at which he started slightly , and then made us each a stiff drink , with a trembling hand .
did you go to their funeral '' ? ?
`` comedy didn't die , it just went crazy .
we now have not only what has been called over here the comedy of menace but we also have horror jokes , magazines known as horror comics , and sick comedians .
the zeitgeist is not crazy as a loon or mad as a march hare ; ;
`` i woke up this morning '' , moreland said , `` paraphrasing lewis carroll .
`` can i bear it '' ? ?
`` just barely '' , he said , and repeated his paraphrase : `` the time has come '' , the walrus said , `` to speak of manic things , of shots and shouts , and sealing dooms of commoners and kings '' .
`` i'll try '' , i said , and sat for a moment thinking .
in the railway station at berlin , a uniformed attendant was chanting , ' foreigners this way ! !
one woman -- she could have been either english or american -- went up to him and said , ' but you are the foreigners ' '' .
`` what's the matter with the music '' ? ?
`` it doesn't drown out the dialogue '' , i explained .
is it all non-fiction '' ? ?
`` speaking of nonism : the other day , in a story about a sit-down demonstration , the paris herald tribune wrote , ' the non-violence became noisier .
`` if we cannot tell evil , horror , and insanity from nonsense , what is the future of humor and comedy '' ? ?
`` cryptic '' , i said .
in our present era of science and angst , the heart has been downgraded , to use one of our popular retrogressive verbs '' .
`` last year your tennessee williams told our dilys powell , in a television program , that it is the task of the playwright to throw light into the dark corners of the human heart .
i'm not pleading for the heart that leaps up when it beholds a rainbow in the sky , or for the heart that with rapture fills and dances with the daffodils .
`` we no longer have tom moore's and longfellow's ' heart for any fate ' , either '' , i said .
`` one day our species promises co-existence , and the next day it threatens co-extinction '' .
`` the heart '' , i said finally , `` is now either in the throat or the mouth or the stomach or the shoes .
there was a long silence .
`` what has impressed you most on your present visit '' ? ?
`` i should say it is the turning of courts of law into veritable theatres for sex dramas , involving clergymen and parishioners , psychiatrists and patients .
`` do you think we need a new henry james to re-explore the anglo-american scene '' ? ?
`` or perhaps a new noel coward '' ? ?
i myself hear it said constantly -- in drawing-rooms .
i stood up and began pacing .
`` too many of our writers seem to be interested only in creatures that crawl out of the woodwork or from under the rock '' .
`` i am worried about the current meanings of the word funny .
disturbing , as when one says that a friend is acting funny ; ;
moreland sat brooding for a full minute , during which i made each of us a new drink .
borrowing a line from don marquis' mehitabel .
it now means , in my country , homosexual '' , i said .
recently , by the way , i received a questionnaire in which i was asked whether or not i was non-institutionalized '' .
then he turned to me .
`` oh , that is demonstrable '' , i told him .
she told the sheep , ' the world is coming to an end ' ! !
the sound mockery of sheep is like the salubrious horse laugh '' .
`` if you saw the drama called rhinoceros '' , i said , `` think of the effect it would have on an audience of rhinos when the actor on stage suddenly begins turning into a rhinoceros .
-- if that can be screamed in their language '' .
moreland demanded .
`` the political and intellectual left began fighting humor and comedy years ago , because they fear things they do not understand and cannot manage , such as satire and irony , such as humor and comedy .
in his famous meeting with nixon a couple of years ago he seemed to believe that he was as funny as ed wynn .
it consists in saying , ' that would be sending the goat to look after the cabbage .
`` such as '' ? ?
`` such as ' sending the cat to guard the mice ' , or ' the falcon to protect the dove ' , or most terribly sharp of all , ' the human being to save humanity ' '' .
`` what a nasty fall was there '' ! !
moreland went over to stare at his peacocks again , and then came back and sat down , restively .
in our age of science and angst it seems to me more brave to stay on earth and explore inner man than to fly far from the sphere of our sorrow and explore outer space '' .
it seems to me that the first human being to reach one of these planets may well learn what it is to be a truly great and noble species '' .
`` not in the largest sense of the words '' , i said .
why do we not realize that no ideology believes so much in itself as it disbelieves in something else ? ?
`` there was also gott strafe angleterre '' , moreland reminded me , `` and carthago delenda est , or if you will , deus strafe carthage .
this is the force , in our time and in every other time , that urges the paranoiac and the manic-depressive to become head of a state .
there is a bitter satire for a future writer in that '' .
`` but we now find writers obsessed by the nooks and crannies of their ivory towers , and curiously devoted to the growing obscurity and complexity of poetry and non-poetry .
one day , the children had wanted to get up onto general burnside's horse .
he looked so comfortable being straight .
arlene was boosting them up when the policeman came by .
arlene had a hard voice , too , this time .
but then arlene got another tone in a hurry , and she said , `` if it wasn't for these dear children '' -- .
but this is a public park and it's a city ordinance that the statues cannot be crawled on '' .
the policeman walked on , but he looked back once .
arlene had taught them a new way to have fun in their little private area ; ;
in matters of exact information , that kept her one step behind developments ; ;
`` never mind '' , arlene had said , after the policeman had left , having pursued the usual unco-operative course of grownups .
i know something that is much more fun that we can do on our little lawn '' .
asked the children , whose reflexes and replies were invariably so admirably normal and predictable .
`` just you wait '' , advised arlene , echoing the dialogue in a recent british movie .
first , arlene had put them through some rapid somersaults .
`` just you wait '' , said arlene again , as though she were discovering the pleasantly tingling insinuations of that handy little sturdy statement .
`` is it anything like cooked-over oatmeal '' ? ?
`` not the least bit '' , arlene snapped .
those were especially the ones that all other grownups laughed at loudest .
but not hard for very long .
`` now '' , said arlene , eventually , making them both sit in formation on a big root of a live oak , the sort of root that divided itself and made their bottoms sag down and feel comfortable .
the children looked at each other and sagged their bottoms down even more comfortably than ever .
then , arlene threw herself backwards and wiggled in a way that was just wonderful .
`` imagine being able to laugh and wink when you're like the top part of that picture frame at home '' , one of them said .
`` i'm general burnside's horse , upside down '' , arlene said , sort of gaspingly , for her : even she had to breathe kind of funny when she was in that position .
then , she was back on her feet , winking and smiling that enormous smile ( she had lots of wonderful big teeth that you never would have suspected she had when she was not smiling ) .
they both tried to keep smiling and winking for a long time , but it made their lips and eyelids tremble .
`` this time '' , arlene said , and she even kept on wiggling a little bit while she was just talking , `` you're going to tell me what i am and what i'm doing .
this time , it was so grand ; ;
it was general burnside's horse running in a circle .
`` that's the general's horse '' , one of them cried out .
the first one said , `` he sure does shake .
then there was the general kissing his wife .
but it was even funnier after they had been told .
but not general burnside .
he never could keep still , even when he didn't move his feet .
or his horse .
it wasn't very funny .
and they did some somersaults .
`` you ought to shake '' , arlene advised them .
she also taught them to sing `` i wish i could shimmy like my sister kate '' .
they were clumsy , but they were beginning to catch on .
`` imagine you won't get your allowance if you're caught not smiling -- or smiling with your lips trembling too much '' , arlene suggested .
they were a little late in getting home .
my mother constituted herself the voice of all of us .
`` i suppose you all were playing and forgot '' ? ?
we couldn't help laughing .
and arlene began tapping the kitchen door open .
but he said it too soon , for it came out just before the tap to which the door responded .
`` she really is a dear little thing '' , my mother agreed .
she was biting into a small red radish ; ;
also , she lived in continual fear of finding a white worm curled up in a neat , mean little heap at the white center of the radish .
it never worked , naturally ; ;
also , when she had bitten off half of the small radish , she found the suspense unbearable ; ;
one could hear a very faint , ladylike sigh of relief .
but the warm joy of her brown eyes was open to the general public .
`` it must be awfully good for them .
`` but do you know something curious '' ? ?
`` i reached into that funny little pocket that is high up on my dress .
and i found a radish .
i thought for a second .
i opened the window and threw the radish out '' .
for she knew and we knew that it was cowardice that had made one more radish that night just too impossible a strain .
nobody could have told why .
it was in the air .
he was passing through town and phoned to say hello .
as a matter of fact , this happened every four or five months .
sometimes , as at this juncture , he did not .
he liked children , in a loathsome kind of way ; ;
when he had left , i could never remember whether he had poked them in their middles , laughingly , with a thick index finger or whether he was merely so much the sort of person who did this that one assumed the action , not bothering to look .
this evening , they were pushed in from the breakfast room , with odds and ends of dessert distributed over them .
they were pushed gently into the room by arlene -- whose only part appearing were hands that crept quickly back around to the kitchen side of the door .
`` tell mr. gorboduc what you're doing these days '' , my mother advised the children , ceremonially .
this could be told chiefly from a sort of head-tossing and prancing , a horselike balkiness of demeanor .
but , at the beginning , this stayed just in the air .
`` we have good times '' .
`` you do '' ? ?
he was forced to wipe his eyes .
eh '' ? ?
`` no '' , he said .
mr. gorboduc took a swig of his sherry .
usually , this was done when attention was diverted by someone else's long , boring story .
mr. gorboduc was finally in command of his mind again .
he asked .
only , unfortunately , he could not remove from his voice a nagging insinuation of the direct command .
`` we bump '' , one said ; ;
`` we grind , too '' , he said .
`` say that again '' , she pleaded .
`` you what '' ? ?
the hostess in her took over .
`` you what '' ? ?
he read henry james and used to pretend profundity through eye-beamings at people .
he would not look up .
pueri aquam de silvas ad agricolas portant , a delightful vignette set in the unforgettable epoch of pre-punic war rome .
the story opens on the eve of his fifty-third birthday , as he prepares for the two weeks of festivities that are to follow .
he at once cancels the celebrations and , buckling on his scimitar , stumbles blindly from the house , where he is hit and killed by a passing oxcart .
an unusual , if not extraordinary , rendering of the classic myth that involves the rescue of prometheus from the rock by the u.s. cavalry was given last week in the warehouse of the albany leather conduit company amid cheers of `` hubba hubba '' and `` yalagaloo pip pip '' ! !
a dead armadillo , the sole occupant of the stage , symbolizes the crisis and destruction of the old order .
according to the myth , old order then vanishes at stage left and reappears at extreme stage right , but director shuz skillfully sidesteps the rather gooshey problem of stage effects by simply having miss arapacis walk across the stage .
we caught the early train to new york .
it's somewhat off the beaten track , to be sure , but therein lies its variety and charm .
likewise , and equally fascinating , is the news that such unlikely synonyms as `` pratakku '' , `` sweathruna '' , and the tongue-twister `` nnuolapertar-it-vuh-karti-birifw- '' all originated in the same village in bathar-on-walli province and are all used to express sentiments concerning british `` imperialism '' .
the breeze and chancellor neitzbohr , a movie melodrama that concerns the attempts of a west german politician to woo a plaster cast of the apollo belvedere .
for example , when the film is only four minutes old , neitzbohr refers to a small , victorian piano stool as `` wilhelmina '' , and we are thereupon subjected to a flashback that informs us that this very piano stool was once used by an epileptic governess whose name , of course , was doris ( the english equivalent , when passed through middle-gaelic derivations , of wilhelmina ) .
in this manner , he seeks to expunge from his own soul the guilt pangs caused by his personal assaults against the english at dunkirk .
and , when the slat finally shatters , we see him count the fragments , all the while muttering , `` he loves me , he loves me not '' .
the effect , needless to say , is almost terrifying , and though at times a bit obscure , the film is certainly a much-needed catharsis for the `` repressed '' movie-goer .
those persons who were lucky enough to see and hear the performance of his work at the brest-silevniov festival in august , 1916 , will certainly welcome his return to public notice ; ;
but now , under the guidance of the contemporary composer marc schlek , jr. , a major revival is under way .
a major portion of the credit should also go to flautist haumd for his rendering of the almost impossible `` indianapolis '' movement in the baslot .
for example , to move ( as the score requires ) from the lowest f-major register up to a barely audible n minor in four seconds , not skipping , at the same time , even one of the 407 fingerings , seems a feat too absurd to consider , and it is to the flautist's credit that he remained silent throughout the passage .
as broadway itself becomes increasingly weighted down by trite , heavy-handed , commercially successful musicals and inspirational problem dramas , the american theatre is going through an inexorable renaissance in that nebulous area known as `` off-broadway '' .
the latest and , significantly , greatest fruit of this theatrical vine is the , an adaptation of basho's classic frog-haiku by roger entwhistle , a former university of maryland chemistry instructor .
the action centers about a group of outspoken and offbeat students sitting around a table in a cafeteria and their collective and ultimately fruitless search for a cup of hot coffee .
the innocence that they tried to conceal at the beginning is clearly destroyed forever when one of them , asking for a piece of lemon-meringue pie , gets a plate of english muffins instead .
aging but still precocious , french feline enfant terrible francoisette lagoon has succeeded in shocking jaded old paris again , this time with a sexy ballet scenario called the lascivious interlude , the story of a nymphomaniac trip-hammer operator who falls hopelessly in love with a middle-aged steam shovel .
petite , lovely yvette chadroe plays the nymphomaniac engagingly .
done in the modern style of a `` confession '' , fink tells in exquisite detail how he came to know , and , more important , love his mother's pet salamander , alicia .
max , in a fit of despair , takes alicia and runs off for two marvelous weeks in burbank ( fink calls it `` the most wonderful and lovely fourteen days in my whole life '' ) , at the end of which alicia tragically contracts parkinson's disease and dies .
opera in the grand tradition , along with mah-jongg , seems to be staging a well-deserved comeback .
fing , a lean , chiseled , impeccable gentleman of the old school who was once mistaken on the street for sir cedric hardwicke , is responsible for the rediscovery of verdi's earliest , most raucous opera , nabisco , a sumptuous bout-de-souffle with a haunting leitmotiv that struck me as being highly reminiscent of the mudugno version of `` volare '' .
the champs elysees is literally littered this summer with the prostrate bodies of france's beat-up beatnik jeunes filles .
bravado has been alternately described as `` a symbol of the new grandeur of france and myself '' ( de gaulle ) and `` a decadent , disgusting slob '' ! !
soaring to stardom along with him , margo felicity brighetti , a luscious and curvaceously beguiling italian starlet , turns in a creditable performance as an airplane mechanic .
we have heard that after seeing mr. quasimodo's work it will be virtually impossible to deny the artistic validity and importance of the whole abstract movement .
quasimodo defines his own art as `` the search for what is not there '' .
it is his relentlessness and unwaivering adherence to this revolutionary artistic philosophy that has enabled him to paint such pictures as `` the invasion of cuba '' .
the sweep of space , the delicate counterbalance of the white masses , the over-all completeness and unity , the originality and imagination , all entitle it to be called an authentic masterpiece .
dear sirs : let me begin by clearing up any possible misconception in your minds , wherever you are .
it is , i am reliably given to understand , the technical argot for those who engage in your particular branch of the boost ; ;
since the latter obviously require an audacity you do not possess , you may perhaps suppose that i am taunting you as socially inferior .
i merely draw an etymological distinction , hoping that specialists and busy people like you will welcome such precision in a layman .
my object , rather , is to alert you to an aspect or two of the affair that could have the gravest implications for you , far beyond the legal sanctions society might inflict .
quite candidly , fellows , i wouldn't be in your shoes for all the rice in china .
sometime on saturday evening , august 22nd , while my family and i were dining at the hostaria dell' orso , in rome , you jimmied a window of our home in bucks county , pennsylvania , and let yourselves into the premises .
what you were looking for ( unless you make a hobby of collecting old tennis rackets and fly screens ) eludes me , but to judge from phonograph records scattered about a fumed-oak victrola .
you then descended one story , glommed a television set from the music room -- the only constructive feature of your visit , by the way -- and , returning to the ground floor , entered the master bedroom .
rummaging through a stack of drawers nearby , you unearthed an antique french chess set in ivory and sandalwood , which , along with two box kodaks , you added to your haul .
so much for the tiresome facts , as familiar to you , i'm sure , as to the constables and state troopers who followed in your wake .
fourteen of the sculptures you took possess properties of a most curious and terrifying nature , as you will observe when your limbs begin to wither and your hair falls out in patches .
all this , though , is simply a prelude , a curtain-raiser , for what ensues , and i doubt whether any occidental could accurately forecast it .
hold on tight .
now , you probably share the widespread western belief that the lord buddha is the most compassionate of the gods , much more so than jehovah and allah and the rest .
well , ordinarily he is , except ( as the wheel of the law specifies ) toward impious folk who steal , disturb , or maltreat the presence .
eight or ten years ago , a couple of french hoods stole a priceless khmer head from the musee guimet , in paris , and a week later crawled into the salpetriere with unmistakable symptoms of leprosy .
they expired amid indescribable fantods , imploring the blessed one to forgive their desecration .
likewise the ivory chinese female figure known as a `` doctor lady '' ( provenance honan ) ; ;
the three indian brass deities , though -- ganessa , siva , and krishna -- are an altogether different cup of tea .
have you ever heard of thuggee ? ?
but it is the wooden sculpture from bali , the one representing two men with their heads bent backward and their bodies interlaced by a fish , that i particularly call to your attention .
inscribed around its base is a charm in balinese , a dialect i take it you don't comprehend .
whosoever violates our rooftree , the legend states , can expect maximal sorrow .
furthermore -- and this , to me , strikes an especially warming note -- it shall avail the vandals naught to throw away or dispose of their loot .
sort of remorseless , isn't it ? ?
now , you no doubt regard the preceding as pap ; ;
in that case , listen to what befell another wisenheimer who tangled with our joss .
in it was a stone tibetan buddha i had picked up in bombay , and occasionally , to make merit , my wife and i garlanded it with flowers or laid a few pennies in its lap .
our suspicions eventually centered , by the process of elimination , on a grocer's boy , a thoroughly bad hat , who delivered cartons to the people overhead .
i learned , for example , that he made a practice of yapping at dogs he encountered and , in winter , of sprinkling salt on the icy pavement to scarify their feet .
sometimes he would be up before dawn , clad as a garbage collector and hurling pails into areaways to exasperate us , and thereafter would hurry to the bronx zoo to grimace at the lions and press cigar butts against their paws .
in short , and to borrow an arboreal phrase , slash timber .
one morning , we discovered not only that the pennies were missing from the idol but that a cigarette had been stubbed out in its lap .
`` no divinity will hold still for that .
and how right she was .
he had aged thirty years , and his face , the color of tallow , was crisscrossed with wrinkles , as though it had been wrapped in chicken wire .
his eyes had the same dreadful rigid stare as dr. grimesby roylott's when he was found before his open safe wearing the speckled band .
the beautiful , the satisfying part of his disintegration , however , was the masterly way the buddha polished him off .
his hubris , deficiency of taste , and sadism carried him straightaway to the top .
not long ago , i rode down with him in an elevator in radio city ; ;
`` see that guy '' ? ?
`` i wouldn't be in his shoes for all the rice in china .
however one looks at it , therefore , i'd say that your horoscope for this autumn is the reverse of rosy .
you can't very well sidle up to people on the street and ask if they want to buy a hot bodhisattva .
my advice , if you live long enough to continue your vocation , is that the next time you're attracted by the exotic , pass it up -- it's nothing but a headache .
compassionately yours ,
revulsion in the desert
she was a living doll and no mistake -- the blue-black bang , the wide cheekbones , olive-flushed , that betrayed the cherokee strain in her midwestern lineage , and the mouth whose only fault , in the novelist's carping phrase , was that the lower lip was a trifle too voluptuous .
